PMID: 39507757
Abstract: 1. Front Oncol. 2024 Oct 23;14:1431985. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1431985.
eCollection  2024.

Establishment of a clinical cancer genetics program for breast cancer in a 
resource-limited country; challenges and opportunities.

Abdel-Razeq H(1)(2), Sharaf B(1), Tamimi F(1), Hani HB(1), Alsmadi O(3), Khalil 
H(1), Abunasser M(1), Edaily S(1), Mansour A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, King Hussein Cancer Center, Amman, Jordan.
(2)School of Medicine, The University of Jordan, Amman, Jordan.
(3)Department of Cell Therapy and Applied Genomics, King Hussein Cancer Center, 
Amman, Jordan.
(4)Department of Radiology, King Hussein Cancer Center, Amman, Jordan.

Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women worldwide, and its incidence 
rate is still increasing, especially among younger women. Nationally, it 
constitutes one-fifth of all cancer cases and almost 40% of all female cancers. 
With a median age of 51 years, breast cancer is diagnosed at least a decade 
earlier, and at more advanced stages compared to Western societies. Hereditary 
cancers account for 10% or more of all cancer burden worldwide. With expanded 
indications, increased number of genes tested, and significant decline in cost 
of testing, such proportion will probably increase. Individuals with pathogenic 
variants of BRCA1 and BRCA2 are at higher risk of breast, ovarian, pancreatic 
and many other cancers. Over the past two decades, several highly penetrant 
cancer-susceptibility genes were identified across almost all tumor sites, thus 
increasing the need for comprehensive cancer genetic programs that address the 
testing process, counselling patients and at-risk family members, and then deal 
with all testing results and its consequences. In addition to its important role 
in preventing more cancers in index patients themselves and among their close 
relatives, identification of pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants, mostly in 
BRCA1 or BRCA2, may inform therapeutic decisions in common cancers including 
breast, ovarian, prostate and pancreatic cancers. In this manuscript, we 
describe the experience of a comprehensive cancer center, in a resource-limited 
country in establishing a comprehensive clinical cancer genetics program that 
can serve as an example for others who share similar demographic and financial 
restrains.

Copyright © 2024 Abdel-Razeq, Sharaf, Tamimi, Hani, Alsmadi, Khalil, Abunasser, 
Edaily and Mansour.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1431985
PMCID: PMC11537866
PMID: 39507757

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

PMID: 39506289
Abstract: 1. Appl Immunohistochem Mol Morphol. 2024 Nov-Dec 01;32(10):462-468. doi: 
10.1097/PAI.0000000000001231. Epub 2024 Nov 7.

A Pilot Study on BRCA1/2 and PI3K Mutations Across Subtypes of Triple Negative 
Breast Cancer in North Indian Population.

Gupta P(1), Thakur T(1), Chadda A(1), Irinike S(2), Khare S(2), Bal A(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Histopathology.
(2)General Surgery, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research 
(PGIMER), Chandigarh, Punjab, India.

BRCA1/2 are tumor suppressor genes which regulate the DNA repair mechanism. 
Mutations in BRCA1/2 may increase the risk of breast cancer in patients. In the 
present study frequency of BRCA1/2 mutations in triple negative breast cancer 
(TNBC) patients was assessed and correlated with molecular subtypes of TNBC. 
Blood samples from 65 confirmed cases of TNBC were collected. DNA was isolated 
from whole blood and libraries were prepared using a BRCA1/2 custom panel. 
Sequencing was done on Ion torrent S5 sequencer and ion reporter was used for 
data analysis. Further molecular subtyping of mutation positive TNBC cases was 
done using immunohistochemistry markers CK5/6; CK4/14; Vimentin and E-Cadherin 
and androgen receptor (AR) using tissue microarray. Twenty five of 65 patients 
had heterozygous pathogenic mutations, alterations with conflicting 
interpretation of pathogenicity, variants of uncertain significance and variants 
of unknown significance. Nine patients had pathogenic mutation in BRCA 1 gene 
only and 2 patients had pathogenic mutations in BRCA2 gene. Two patients were 
transheterozygous for BRCA mutations, that is, had pathogenic mutations in both 
BRCA1/2 genes simultaneously and 5 were compound heterozygous (involving BRCA2 
gene in all the cases). Prevalent subtypes among BRCA positive cases were 
unclassified subtype (n=4, 33%), Basal like (n=5, 41%), and mesenchymal subtype 
(n=3, 25%). None of the LAR subtype showed BRCA1/2 mutations. The present study 
observed that the BRCA1 mutation is more frequent than BRCA2 mutation in TNBC. 
BRCA1/2 mutations do not correspond to BRCAness or basal phenotype. Considering 
high incidence of breast cancer and lack of correlation of basal morphology with 
BRCA1/2 mutation, the molecular methods should be used for screening for BRCA1/2 
mutations. This will not only help in familial screening but also in deciding 
targeted therapy with PARP (poly-ADP ribose polymerase) inhibitors.

Copyright © 2024 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/PAI.0000000000001231
PMID: 39506289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

PMID: 39504607
Abstract: 1. DNA Repair (Amst). 2024 Nov 4;144:103783. doi: 10.1016/j.dnarep.2024.103783. 
Online ahead of print.

One-ended and two-ended breaks at nickase-broken replication forks.

Scully R(1), Walter JC(2), Nussenzweig A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology-Oncology and Cancer Research 
Institute, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA 02215, USA. Electronic address: rscully@bidmc.harvard.edu.
(2)Department of Biological Chemistry & Molecular Pharmacology, Blavatnik 
Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA; Howard Hughes Medical 
Institute, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(3)Laboratory of Genome Integrity, National Cancer Institute, NIH, Bethesda, MD, 
USA.

Replisome collision with a nicked parental DNA template can lead to the 
formation of a replication-associated double strand break (DSB). How this break 
is repaired has implications for cancer initiation, cancer therapy and 
therapeutic gene editing. Recent work shows that collision of a replisome with a 
nicked DNA template can give rise to either a single-ended (se) or a 
double-ended (de)DSB, with potentially divergent effects on repair pathway 
choice and genomic instability. Emerging evidence suggests that the biochemical 
environment of the broken mammalian replication fork may be specialized in such 
a way as to skew repair in favor of homologous recombination at the expense of 
non-homologous end joining.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dnarep.2024.103783
PMID: 39504607

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

PMID: 39502381
Abstract: 1. Obstet Gynecol Int. 2024 Oct 29;2024:9527113. doi: 10.1155/2024/9527113. 
eCollection 2024.

BRCA1 Protein Expression in Epithelial Ovarian Cancer and Associated 
Clinicopathological Factors in Uganda.

Okecha T(1)(2)(3), Abila DB(3), Nabbale DL(4), Katongole F(5), Yahaya JJ(6), 
Lukande R(3), Kalungi S(4), Nalwoga H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Uganda Cancer Institute, Kampala, Uganda.
(2)Department of Pathology, Uganda Christian University, Kampala, Uganda.
(3)Department of Pathology, College of Health Sciences, Makerere University, 
Kampala, Uganda.
(4)Department of Pathology, Mulago National Referral Hospital, Kampala, Uganda.
(5)Department of Pathology, Busitema University, Mbale, Uganda.
(6)Department of Pathology, School of Health Sciences, Soroti University, 
Soroti, Uganda.

Background: BRCA1 gene dysfunction seen in epithelial ovarian carcinomas often 
results from germline mutations, somatic mutations, and promoter methylation. 
Identification of tumors with loss of BRCA1 protein expression has shown to have 
therapeutic and prognostic implications. The aim of this study was to determine 
the expression of BRCA1 protein in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) and the 
associated clinicopathological characteristics. Methods and Results: This was a 
cross-sectional laboratory-based study that used paraffin-embedded tissue blocks 
of patients histologically diagnosed with EOC from January 2010 to August 2018. 
Tissue sections were stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) for histological 
confirmation and with immunohistochemistry (IHC) using a mouse-derived 
monoclonal antibody MS110 for BRCA1 protein expression. The association between 
BRCA1 protein expression and independent variables was determined using 
Pearson's Chi-square test. A total of 104 tissue blocks from patients with EOC 
were included in the study with a mean age of 48.7 ± 12.8 years. Serous tumors 
were the most common which comprised 74.0% (77/104) of all the tumors and 
majority of them 75.3% (58/77) were high grade. Loss of expression of BRCA1 
protein expression was found in 33.7% (33/98) of all the cases. There was no 
statistically significant association between BRCA1 expression and age of 
patients, tumor grade, and histological subtype. Conclusion: There is a high 
expression of altered BRCA1 expression in tissues of EOC. Although it has not 
shown association with age of patients, histology types, and tumor grade, 
further studies need to assess its influence of the survival of cancer patients 
with EOC.

Copyright © 2024 Tonny Okecha et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2024/9527113
PMCID: PMC11537748
PMID: 39502381

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

PMID: 39500600
Abstract: 1. Cancer Control. 2024 Jan-Dec;31:10732748241298329. doi: 
10.1177/10732748241298329.

Update on Combination Strategies of PARP Inhibitors.

Lin Z(1), Wang L(2), Xing Z(1), Wang F(2)(3)(4), Cheng X(2)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Women's Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Zhejiang Key Laboratory of Precision Diagnosis and Therapy for Major 
Gynecological Diseases, Women's Hospital, Zhejiang University School of 
Medicine, Hangzhou, P.R. China.
(3)Gynecological Oncology Department, Women's Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou, P.R. China.
(4)Zhejiang Provincial Clinical Research Center for Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Hangzhou, P.R. China.
(5)Zhejiang Key Laboratory of Precision Diagnosis and Therapy for Major 
Gynecological Diseases, Hangzhou, P.R. China.

The application of PARP inhibitors has revolutionized cancer treatment and has 
achieved significant advancements, particularly with regard to tumors with 
defects in genes involved in homologous recombination repair (HRR) processes, 
such as BRCA1 and BRCA2. Despite the promising outcomes of PARP inhibitors, 
certain limitations and challenges still exist, including acquired drug 
resistance, severe side effects, and limited therapeutic benefits for patients 
without homologous recombination deficiency (HRD). Various combinations 
involving PARP inhibitors have been developed to overcome these limitations. 
Among these, combinations with immune checkpoint inhibitors, antiangiogenic 
agents, and various small-molecule inhibitors are well-studied strategies that 
show great potential for optimizing the efficacy of PARP inhibitors, overcoming 
resistance mechanisms, and expanding target populations. However, the efficiency 
and overlapping toxicity of these combination strategies for cancers vary among 
studies, thereby limiting their use. In this review, we describe the mechanisms 
and limitations of PARP inhibitors to better understand the mechanisms of 
combination treatments. Furthermore, we have summarized recent studies on the 
combination of PARP inhibitors with a range of medications and discussed their 
clinical efficacy. The objective of this review is to enhance the 
comprehensiveness of information pertaining to this topic.

DOI: 10.1177/10732748241298329
PMCID: PMC11539152
PMID: 39500600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.

PMID: 39498434
Abstract: 1. NAR Genom Bioinform. 2024 Nov 4;6(4):lqae146. doi: 10.1093/nargab/lqae146. 
eCollection 2024 Sep.

Tumor purity estimated from bulk DNA methylation can be used for adjusting beta 
values of individual samples to better reflect tumor biology.

Sasiain I(1), Nacer DF(1)(2), Aine M(2), Veerla S(1)(2), Staaf J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Translational Cancer Research, Department of Laboratory Medicine, 
Lund University, Lund 22381, Sweden.
(2)Division of Oncology, Department of Clinical Sciences Lund, Lund University, 
Lund 22381, Sweden.

Epigenetic deregulation through altered DNA methylation is a fundamental feature 
of tumorigenesis, but tumor data from bulk tissue samples contain different 
proportions of malignant and non-malignant cells that may confound the 
interpretation of DNA methylation values. The adjustment of DNA methylation data 
based on tumor purity has been proposed to render both genome-wide and 
gene-specific analyses more precise, but it requires sample purity estimates. 
Here we present PureBeta, a single-sample statistical framework that uses 
genome-wide DNA methylation data to first estimate sample purity and then adjust 
methylation values of individual CpGs to correct for sample impurity. Purity 
values estimated with the algorithm have high correlation (>0.8) to reference 
values obtained from DNA sequencing when applied to samples from breast 
carcinoma, lung adenocarcinoma, and lung squamous cell carcinoma. Methylation 
beta values adjusted based on purity estimates have a more binary distribution 
that better reflects theoretical methylation states, thus facilitating improved 
biological inference as shown for BRCA1 in breast cancer. PureBeta is a 
versatile tool that can be used for different Illumina DNA methylation arrays 
and can be applied to individual samples of different cancer types to enhance 
biological interpretability of methylation data.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of NAR 
Genomics and Bioinformatics.

DOI: 10.1093/nargab/lqae146
PMCID: PMC11532792
PMID: 39498434

PMID: 39494680
Abstract: 1. Environ Mol Mutagen. 2024 Jul;65(6-7):230. doi: 10.1002/em.22617.

Correction to "Mutation spectra of the BRCA1/2 genes in human breast and ovarian 
cancer and germline".

[No authors listed]

Erratum for
    Environ Mol Mutagen. 2024 Jun;65(5):179-186. doi: 10.1002/em.22614.

DOI: 10.1002/em.22617
PMID: 39494680

PMID: 39490493
Abstract: 1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2024 Oct 26:136977. doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.136977. 
Online ahead of print.

In silico screening and identifying phytoconstituents of Withania somnifera as 
potent inhibitors of BRCA1 mutants: A therapeutic against breast cancer.

Panda SM(1), Nandeshwar(1), Tripathy U(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physics, Indian Institute of Technology (Indian School of 
Mines), Dhanbad 826004, Jharkhand, India.
(2)Department of Physics, Indian Institute of Technology (Indian School of 
Mines), Dhanbad 826004, Jharkhand, India. Electronic address: 
utripathy@iitism.ac.in.

Breast CAncer gene 1 (BRCA1) is an anti-oncogene that helps the cell repair 
damaged DNA and preserve genetic material. BRCA1 also acts as a cell growth 
suppressor and produces tumor suppressor gene (TSG) proteins, i.e., BRCA1 
protein. Remarkably, BRCA1 mutations account for 90 % of hereditary breast 
cancer and a majority of hereditary ovarian cancer. Hence, we have considered 
three mutants of BRCA1 (R1699W, R1699Q, T1700A) in this study and adopted an 
in-silico approach to find the best possible phytochemical to inhibit these 
mutated proteins, enabling early breast cancer diagnosis. Perceiving the 
importance, many natural molecules from ancient medicinal plants are considered 
for molecular docking. Our findings suggest that though many molecules bind 
actively with the receptor's active site, the top three phytoconstituents 
(27-Deoxy-14-hydroxywithaferin A, Withacoagulin, Somniferanolide) of Withania 
somnifera, commonly known as Ashwagandha, have high binding affinities and 
suitable pharmacokinetic properties, making these natural compounds potential 
drug candidates. Further, molecular dynamics (MD) simulation and the binding 
free energy calculation show stability and thermodynamically favourable. We can, 
therefore, draw the conclusion that these lead compounds act as potential 
inhibitors against BRCA1. However, wet lab experiments and clinical trials are 
recommended to ascertain its efficacy, hence the development of novel BRCA1 
inhibitors.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.136977
PMID: 39490493

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

PMID: 39483967
Abstract: 1. Oncol Lett. 2024 Oct 9;28(6):600. doi: 10.3892/ol.2024.14733. eCollection 2024
 Dec.

Biomarkers to predict the benefits of immune‑checkpoint blockade‑based therapy 
in patients with malignant peritoneal mesothelioma (Review).

Wang C(1), Zhao Y(1), Liang W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Oncology, The Second Hospital of Jilin 
University, Changchun, Jilin 130000, P.R. China.

Malignant peritoneal mesothelioma (MPeM) is a type of rare and highly lethal 
tumor. Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB)-based therapy has shown encouraging 
clinical activity for MPeM. However, no definitive biomarkers have been 
identified for predicting which patients with MPeM will benefit from ICB-based 
therapy. At present, there are several novel potential biomarkers proposed for 
predicting the response to ICB-based therapy, and biomarkers available in MPeM 
cells and in the tumor microenvironment have been identified with the potential 
to predict the efficacy of ICB-based therapy in MPeM. According to the molecular 
characteristics of MPeM itself, the feasibility of biomarkers in practice, and 
the body of available evidence, we hypothesize that the following five types of 
biomarkers can be used to predict the response of ICB-based therapy in patients 
with MPeM: Tertiary lymphoid structures, immune checkpoints and their ligands, 
fusion gene neoantigen burden, BRCA1-associated protein-1 haploinsufficiency and 
transcriptome-based biomarkers. The present review discusses the value and 
limitations of each type of biomarker, and potential solutions to address the 
limitations are proposed. The aim of the present review is to provide a 
background for future studies on ICB-based therapy for MPeM.

Copyright: © 2024 Wang et al.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2024.14733
PMCID: PMC11525615
PMID: 39483967

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.

PMID: 39488601
Abstract: 1. Sci Rep. 2024 Nov 2;14(1):26405. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-77664-4.

An in silico approach uncovering the competency of oncolytic human adenovirus 52 
for targeted breast cancer virotherapy.

Naveed M(1), Batool Z(2), Aziz T(3), Javed K(2), Ali N(2), Rehman HM(4), Alharbi 
M(5), Alasmari AF(5), Alshammari A(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Science and Technology, University of 
Central Punjab, Lahore, 54590, Pakistan. naveed.quaidian@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Science and Technology, University of 
Central Punjab, Lahore, 54590, Pakistan.
(3)Laboratory of Animal Health Food Hygiene and Quality, University of Ioannina, 
Arta, Greece.
(4)School of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, University of the Punjab, Lahore, 
Pakistan.
(5)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology College of Pharmacy, King Saud 
University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(6)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology College of Pharmacy, King Saud 
University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. iwockd@gmail.com.

Breast cancer remains a major health threat throughout the world specifically in 
women above 30 years of age however, it is rarely known to affect men as well. 
It is characterized by the abnormal division of cells in the breast tissue 
resulting in the development of breast malignancies. Various risk factors 
contributing to breast cancer include age, family history, genetic mutations 
(chiefly in BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes) along with hormonal imbalances (oestrogen, 
progesterone, HER2). Early detection which can be obtained through frequent 
rounds of self-examination, mammographic scanning, and clinical assessment plays 
a crucial role in the prevention of the disease. In addition, appropriate 
diagnosis assists in better therapeutic responses. This study highlights the 
considerable health risks associated with the conventional treatment procedures 
which arise and increased demand of advanced, secure, and risk-free treatment 
alternatives. Oncolytic viruses are potentially apparent for the aim of 
improving cancer therapeutics with reduced side effects. These viruses act as 
the fundamental therapeutic agent themselves that selectively target and kill 
malignant cells without harm to healthy tissues. The key objective of the 
research is to provide evidence that Human Adenovirus 52 is a potent oncolytic 
virus and to highlight its capacity to target and eliminate cancer cells with 
precision while causing the least amount of harm to healthy tissues. Validating 
the in-silico method entails evaluating the precision and dependability of the 
computational modelling by contrasting the in-silico predictions with the 
findings from the experiments rank as the secondary objective. The workflow of 
this research utilized in-silico computational drug designing approaches 
including retrieval of tertiary structures of both the target Breast Cancer Type 
1 Susceptibility Protein (BRCA1) and the viral Human Adenovirus 52 protein, 
their validation generating Ramachandran Plots determining favoured amino acid 
residue angles and prediction of their active residues. Furthermore, the study 
focused on the molecular dynamics docking of proteins, interpretation of 
molecular interactions between the docked complex, as well as the assessment of 
the molecular dynamic simulations (MD) in addition to their MMGBSA binding 
energy calculations. A successful docking between BRCA1 and Adenovirus protein 
provided a significant score of 329.2 +/- 24.3, furthermore, MD simulations 
showed a high RMSD peak at 2.8 Å, RMSF were maximum at 3.5 Å with highest 
protein-protein interaction, the radius of gyration was stable throughout the 
simulation representing elastic stability along with a high energy interaction 
value of - 7882 kCal/mol. Moreover, the MMGBSA calculation results showed a 
notable release of binding free energy of - 68.96 kCal/mol demonstrating 
effective bond formation between the docked complex. These findings propose the 
effectiveness of Human Adenovirus 52 to treat cancer. The selected oncolytic 
Human Adenovirus 52 is a potential candidate for the target specific treatment 
of breast cancer through virotherapy. This computer-aided drug discovery 
presents significant potential in targeting cancer cells and would assist in the 
development of potent drug reagents for the cancer therapy.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-77664-4
PMCID: PMC11531525
PMID: 39488601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

PMID: 39486583
Abstract: 1. Adv Med Sci. 2024 Oct 30:S1896-1126(24)00061-0. doi: 
10.1016/j.advms.2024.10.004. Online ahead of print.

Recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma is associated with the enrichment of MYC 
targets gene sets, elevated high confidence deleterious mutations and 
alternative splicing of DDB2 and BRCA1 transcripts.

Karaosmanoğlu O(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Kamil Özdağ Faculty of Science, Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey 
University, İbrahim Öktem Avenue, No. 124, 70200, Karaman, Türkiye. Electronic 
address: oguzhankaraosmanoglu@windowslive.com.

PURPOSE: Recurrence is the main cause of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) related 
deaths. Underlying recurrence biology can be better understood by comparative 
analysis of the complete set of transcripts between recurrent and non-recurrent 
HCC. In this study, transcriptomic data (GSE56545) from 21 male patients 
diagnosed with either recurrent or non-recurrent HCC were reanalyzed to identify 
deregulated pathways, somatic mutations, fusion transcripts, alternative 
splicing events, and the immune context in recurrent HCC.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: DESeq2 was used for differential expression analysis, 
Mutect2 for somatic mutation analysis, Arriba and STAR-Fusion for fusion 
transcript analysis, and rMATs for alternative splicing analysis.
RESULTS: The results revealed that MYC targets gene sets 
(Hallmark_MYC_targets_V1 and Hallmark_MYC_targets_V2) were significantly 
enriched in recurrent HCC. Among the MYC targets, CBX3, NOP56, CDK4, NPM1, MCM5, 
MCM4 and PA2G4 upregulation was significantly associated with poor survival. 
Somatic mutation analysis demonstrated that the numbers of high confidence 
deleterious mutations were significantly increased in recurrent HCC. Alternative 
splicing-mediated production of non-functional DDB2 and oncogenic BRCA1 D11q 
were discovered in recurrent HCC. Finally, CD8+ T-cells were significantly 
decreased in recurrent HCC.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicated that the enrichment of MYC targets gene 
sets is one of the most critical factors that leads to the development of 
recurrent HCC. In addition, elevated deleterious mutation numbers and 
alternative spliced DDB2 and BRCA1 isoforms have been identified as prominent 
contributors to increasing genomic instability in male patients with recurrent 
HCC.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.advms.2024.10.004
PMID: 39486583

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

PMID: 39481320
Abstract: 1. Eur J Oncol Nurs. 2024 Oct 3;73:102710. doi: 10.1016/j.ejon.2024.102710.
Online  ahead of print.

Decision-making process for risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy among Korean 
women with hereditary breast cancer: A grounded theory study.

Park SY(1), Jin J(2), Lee H(3), Lim M(4), Nam EJ(5), Kim S(6).

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, Daegu Catholic University, 42472, Daegu, South Korea; 
College of Nursing, Yonsei University, 03722, Seoul, South Korea. Electronic 
address: psy23@cu.ac.kr.
(2)Department of Nursing, Korea National University of Transportation, 27469, 
Jeungpyeong, South Korea. Electronic address: jhjin@ut.ac.kr.
(3)Mo-Im Kim Nursing Research Institute, College of Nursing, Yonsei University, 
03722, Seoul, South Korea. Electronic address: hkyulee@yuhs.ac.
(4)Division of Tumor Immunology, Center for Gynecologic Cancer, Research 
Institute and Hospital, National Cancer Center, 10408, Goyang, South Korea. 
Electronic address: mclim@ncc.re.kr.
(5)Women's Cancer Clinic, Division of Gynecologic Oncology, Department of 
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Yonsei University College of Medicine, 03722, Seoul, 
South Korea. Electronic address: nahmej6@yuhs.ac.
(6)Mo-Im Kim Nursing Research Institute, College of Nursing, Yonsei University, 
03722, Seoul, South Korea. Electronic address: suekim@yuhs.ac.

PURPOSE: To explore the decision-making process regarding Risk-Reducing 
Salpingo-Oophorectomy (RRSO) among women with hereditary breast cancer in Korea, 
with a focus on complex interpersonal interactions and sociocultural influences.
METHOD: This qualitative, grounded theory study conducted semi-structured and 
in-depth interviews with 17 women with hereditary breast cancer between March 
and December 2021. Theoretical sampling and constant comparison were utilized 
for data analysis.
RESULTS: The core concept identified was 'Navigating optimal trajectories for 
preserving myself,' encompassing four stages: (1) conflicting between 
cancer-free health and maintaining integrated self; (2) recognizing the 
decision-maker: myself vs. physician; (3) seeking meaningful information; and 
(4) evaluating decision results and prioritizing values. Women's conflict was 
influenced by the time given to decide, the timing of BRCA results, complexity 
of surgical choices, diverse perspectives, and the quality of information. This 
process often reiterated until RRSO was undertaken.
CONCLUSION: Women with hereditary breast cancer grapple with conflicting 
decisions to preserve their integrated selves. The decision-making process is 
complex and subjective, influenced by physician-dominated decision-making 
culture, subjective meaningful information, individual values, and decisional 
circumstances. Supporting women in prioritizing their values and providing 
comprehensive information on the physical, emotional, relational, and social 
impacts of each option are crucial. Oncology nurses can play a vital role in 
bridging the gap between physician-dominated decision-making and patient 
autonomy by facilitating communication and supporting patient-centered care.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejon.2024.102710
PMID: 39481320

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

PMID: 39478204
Abstract: 1. Nature. 2024 Oct;634(8036):1062-1063. doi: 10.1038/d41586-024-03358-6.

Thirty years since the race to the BRCA1 gene.

Ashworth A.

DOI: 10.1038/d41586-024-03358-6
PMID: 39478204

PMID: 39477723
Abstract: 1. Clin Breast Cancer. 2024 Oct 10:S1526-8209(24)00277-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.clbc.2024.09.018. Online ahead of print.

Disparities in Hereditary Genetic Testing in Patients with Triple Negative 
Breast Cancer.

Gupta S(1), Jones JE(2), Smith-Graziani D(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA.
(2)Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Winship Cancer Institute, 
Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA.
(3)Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Winship Cancer Institute, 
Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Electronic address: 
demetria.joy.smith-graziani@emory.edu.

Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive subtype of breast cancer 
that disproportionately affects younger females, non-Hispanic Black women, 
Hispanic women, and women with the BRCA1 gene mutation. Hereditary genetic 
testing is particularly important in this population to assess preventative and 
treatment strategies, however access to genetic testing is variable. A 
qualitative review was performed to evaluate barriers to genetic testing for 
patients with TNBC. Mutations common in breast cancer are reviewed along with 
updated guidelines on management strategies, including the ability to include 
PARP inhibitors as a treatment strategy. Barriers to genetic testing are 
multifactorial, with non-Hispanic Black women being tested less often than other 
groups. The disparity is even further represented by the limited number of 
non-Hispanic Black patients with TNBC who receive risk-reducing surgery or 
targeted systemic therapy. Eliminating barriers to genetic testing can allow us 
to support guideline-directed care for patients with TNBC at higher risk for 
genetic mutations.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clbc.2024.09.018
PMID: 39477723

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors have stated that they 
have no conflicts of interest.

PMID: 39474537
Abstract: 1. Case Rep Oncol. 2024 Sep 20;17(1):1050-1054. doi: 10.1159/000541160.
eCollection  2024 Jan-Dec.

Successful Treatment of Unresectable BRCA1 L63*-Mutated Basal Cell Carcinoma 
Invading the Parietal Bone with Cisplatin and Fluorouracil: A Case Report.

Yoshida-Akai S(1), Fujimura T(1), Amagai R(1), Kambayashi Y(1), Hashimoto A(1), 
Terui H(1), Oka K(1), Watanabe-Takahashi M(1), Yamazaki E(1), Ohuchi K(2), Asano 
Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Sendai, Japan.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Tohoku University Hospital, Sendai, Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is a common skin cancer that rarely 
metastasizes but can deeply infiltrate local tissues. The small number of 
unresectable BCC cases makes it difficult to conduct clinical trials, resulting 
in delays in the development of effective drugs for BCC. Cancer gene panel 
testing has led to an increasing number of new treatment proposals for patients 
with solid tumors for whom no standard treatment is available.
CASE PRESENTATION: We described a case of unresectable BRCA1 L63*-mutated BCC 
invading the parietal bone, which was successfully treated with cisplatin and 
fluorouracil.
CONCLUSION: Our present case suggests that comprehensive mutation analysis by 
gene panel testing is important in advanced BCC because genes other than those 
involved in the hedgehog signaling pathway can be driver genes.

© 2024 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000541160
PMCID: PMC11521543
PMID: 39474537

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicting interests to 
declare.

PMID: 39473423
Abstract: 1. Front Biosci (Landmark Ed). 2024 Oct 12;29(10):352. doi:
10.31083/j.fbl2910352.

Dose-Response Effect of Various Concentrations of Cl-Containing Water-Soluble 
Derivatives of C(60) Fullerenes on a Selective Regulation of Gene Expression in 
Human Embryonic Lung Fibroblasts (HELF).

Kostyuk SV(1), Malinovskaya EM(1), Umriukhin PE(1)(2), Mikheeva EN(2), Ershova 
ES(1), Savinova EA(1), Kameneva LV(1), Troshin PA(3)(4), Kraevaya OA(4), 
Rodionov IV(1), Kostyuk SE(1), Salimova TA(1), Kutsev SI(1), Veiko NN(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of molecular biology, Research Centre for Medical Genetics, 115478 
Moscow, Russia.
(2)Department of Physiology, I.M. Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University 
(Sechenov University), 119048 Moscow, Russia.
(3)Zhengzhou Research Institute, Harbin Institute of Technology, 450007 
Zhengzhou, Henan, China.
(4)Federal Research Center for Problems of Chemical Physics and Medicinal 
Chemistry of RAS, 142432 Chernogolovka, Russia.

BACKGROUND: The new synthesized water-soluble derivatives of C60 fullerenes are 
of a great interest to researchers since they can potentially be promising 
materials for drug delivery, bioimaging, biosonding, and tissue engineering. 
Surface functionalization of fullerene derivatives changes their chemical and 
physical characteristics, increasing their solubility and suitability for 
different biological systems applications, however, any changes in 
functionalized fullerenes can modulate their cytotoxicity and antioxidant 
properties. The toxic or protective effect of fullerene derivatives on cells is 
realized through the activation or inhibition of genes and proteins of key 
signaling pathways in cells responsible for regulation of cellular reactive 
oxygen species (ROS) level, proliferation, and apoptosis.
METHODS: The 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5 diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) 
assay was used to assess cells viability. Flow cytometry analyses was applied to 
measure proteins levels in human embryonic lung fibroblasts (HELF) cells. HELF 
is a standard, stable and well described human cell line that can be passaged 
many times. Quantitation of ROS was assessed using H2DCFH-DA. Fluorescence 
images were obtained using microscopy. Expression of BCL2, CCND1, CDKN2A, BRCA1, 
BAX, NFKB1, NOX4, NRF2, TBP (reference gene) was analyzed using real-time 
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
RESULTS: We found that high and low concentrations of fullerene C60 derivatives 
with the five residues of potassium salt of 6-(3-phenylpropanamido)hexanoic (F1) 
or 6-(2-(thiophen-2-yl)acetamido)hexanoic (F2) acid and a chlorine atom attached 
directly to the cage cause diametrically opposite activation of genes and 
proteins of key signaling pathways regulating the level of oxidative stress and 
apoptosis in HELF. High concentrations of F1 and F2 have a genotoxic effect, 
causing NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4) expression activation in 24-72 hours (2-4 fold 
increase), ROS synthesis induction (increase by 30-40%), DNA damage and breaks 
(2-2.5 fold 8-oxodG level increases), and activation of nuclear factor 
kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) (by 40-80%) against the 
background of reduced NF-E2-related factor 2 (NRF2) expression (by 20-45%). Low 
concentrations of F1 and F2 produced a cytoprotective effect: in 24-72 hours 
they reduce the oxidative DNA damage (by 20-40%), decrease the number of 
double-strand DNA breaks (by 20-30%), increase the level of anti-apoptotic 
proteins and enhance the antioxidant response activating the NRF2 expression 
(NRF2 gene expression increases 1.5-2.3 fold, phosphorylated form of the NRF2 
protein increases 2-3 fold).
CONCLUSIONS: Obtained results show that in low doses studied fullrens may serve 
as perspective DNA protectors against the damaging genotoxic factors.

© 2024 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.

DOI: 10.31083/j.fbl2910352
PMID: 39473423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

PMID: 39468117
Abstract: 1. Sci Rep. 2024 Oct 29;14(1):25879. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-75230-6.

The discrepancy of somatic BRCA1/2 pathogenic variants from two different 
platforms in epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, and peritoneal cancer.

Kim JH(1), Shin JY(2), Park SY(2), Seo SS(1), Kang S(1)(2)(3), Yoo CW(2), Park 
SY(1), Lim MC(4)(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Center for Gynecologic Cancer, National Cancer Center, Goyang, Korea.
(2)Department of Pathology, National Cancer Center Korea, Goyang, Korea.
(3)Department of Cancer Control and Policy, National Cancer Center Graduate 
School of Cancer Science and Policy, National Cancer Center, Goyang, Korea.
(4)Center for Gynecologic Cancer, National Cancer Center, Goyang, Korea. 
gynlim@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Cancer Control and Policy, National Cancer Center Graduate 
School of Cancer Science and Policy, National Cancer Center, Goyang, Korea. 
gynlim@gmail.com.
(6)Division of Rare and Refractory Cancer, Research Institute, National Cancer 
Center, Goyang, Korea. gynlim@gmail.com.
(7)Center for Clinical Trial, Hospital, National Cancer Center, Goyang, Korea. 
gynlim@gmail.com.

The somatic BRCA1 or BRCA2 Pathogenic Variant (PV)/Likely PV (LPV) from Next 
Generation Sequencing (NGS) is the most important biomarker for PARP inhibitor 
use and maintenance-targeted therapies. A discrepancy in the detection rates of 
BRCA1 and BRCA2 PV/LPV was identified among the NGS platforms. The objective of 
this study was to compare the somatic BRCA results from two distinct platforms 
using the same cohort and to identify the causes of these differences. Patients 
with epithelial ovarian cancer who concurrently underwent tumor NGS using two 
different platforms between January 2022 and June 2023 were included in this 
study. The two platforms used were in-house tumor NGS (Illumina NextSeq 550Dx, 
SureSelectXT library kit, and datasets from 1000 Genomes, ESP6500, ExAC, and 
ClinVar) and GreenPlan homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) test (Illumina 
NextSeq 550Dx, customized Twist Bioscience library kit, and datasets from COSMIC 
and OncoKB). The results of somatic mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 were compared 
between the two platforms. Of the 118 patients, 11.9% (n = 14) exhibited a 
discordant interpretation of BRCA1 or BRCA2 between the two platforms. Eleven 
patients (9.3%) exhibited negative results in the in-house platform but positive 
results (eight seven as PV of BRCA1, one as PV of BRCA2, one as LPV of BRCA1, 
and two as LPV of BRCA2) in the GreenPlan HRD test, while three patients (2.6%) 
had positive BRCA pathogenic variants (two as PV of BRCA1 [c.3340G > T, 
c.5152 + 3 A > C], one as LPV of BRCA2 [c.8174G > T], and one as LPV of BRCA1 
[c.5017_5019delCAC]) in the in-house platform but a negative result in the 
GreenPlan HRD test. The discordance rate of somatic BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations 
from different platforms was approximately 12%. In the case of the strong 
implication of BRCA PV/LPV with a negative result with one genetic test, 
different platforms could be considered in limited cases. Careful interpretation 
and further studies for the cross-validation of gene analysis platforms are 
needed.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-75230-6
PMCID: PMC11519512
PMID: 39468117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

PMID: 39466567
Abstract: 1. Breast Cancer. 2024 Oct 28. doi: 10.1007/s12282-024-01639-6. Online ahead of 
print.

Clinicopathogenomic analysis of PI3K/AKT/PTEN-altered luminal metastatic breast 
cancer in Japan.

Tada H(1), Miyashita M(2), Harada-Shoji N(2), Ebata A(2), Sato M(2), Motonari 
T(2), Yanagaki M(2), Kon T(2), Sakamoto A(2), Ishida T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Breast and Endocrine Surgical Oncology, Graduate School of 
Medicine, Tohoku University, 1-1 Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi, 
980-8574, Japan. hiroshi.tada.a4@tohoku.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Breast and Endocrine Surgical Oncology, Graduate School of 
Medicine, Tohoku University, 1-1 Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi, 
980-8574, Japan.

This rapid communication highlights the correlation between protein kinase B 
alpha (AKT1)-phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit 
alpha (PIK3CA)- phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) alterations and 
clinicopathological factors in Japanese patients with metastatic recurrent 
breast cancer (mBC). This study analyzed 1967 patients with luminal-type breast 
cancer who underwent cancer gene panel testing. The results demonstrated that 
AKT pathway alterations, including PI3K/AKT/PTEN, occurred in 1038 
(52.8%) cases. Patients with AKT pathway mutations were older (p = 0.002) and 
had a higher rate of invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) histology (p = 0.001), 
progesterone receptor (PgR) positivity (p = 0.006), and bone metastases 
(p = 0.001), and a lower rate of germline BRCA2 (p < 0.001). Comprehensive 
genomic profile results demonstrated a higher tumor mutational burden (TMB) 
(< 0.001) and lower tumor BRCA1/2 expression (< 0.001) in patients with 
mutations in the AKT pathway. These results are crucial for characterizing 
candidates for AKT pathway-targeted molecular therapies and conceptualizing 
optimal treatment strategies. Clinical trial registration: This study is an 
observational study and is therefore not registered with the clinical trials 
registration.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12282-024-01639-6
PMID: 39466567

PMID: 39465866
Abstract: 1. Medicine (Baltimore). 2024 Oct 11;103(41):e40016. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000040016.

Skin metastasis of BRCA mutated prostate cancer: A case report and a brief 
review of literature.

Jubran S(1)(2), Basso U(1), Milani A(1)(2), Erbetta E(1)(2), Di Marco A(1)(2), 
Pittarello C(1)(2), Cavasin N(1)(2), Lai E(2)(3), Stragliotto S(3), Pierantoni 
F(3), Zampiva I(1)(4), Bimbatti D(1), Maruzzo M(1).

Author information:
(1)Oncology Unit 1, Istituto Oncologico Veneto, IOV - IRCCS, Padova, Italy.
(2)Department of Surgery, Oncology and Gastroenterology, University of Padua, 
Padua, Italy.
(3)Oncology Unit 3, Istituto Oncologico Veneto, IOV - IRCCS, Padova, Italy.
(4)Department of Engineering for Innovation Medicine (DIMI), Section of 
Innovation Biomedicine - Oncology Area, University of Verona, Verona, Italy.

RATIONALE: Metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer has a poor prognosis 
especially when harboring DNA damage repair gene mutations, nevertheless, in the 
case of pathogenic BRCA gene mutations, PARPi demonstrated a survival benefit 
and is a validated treatment. Nowadays, there is no data regarding unusual 
metastases after these drugs. Cutaneous metastases appear rarely in prostate 
cancer and were associated with a worse prognosis. Moreover, there are no 
consolidated data concerning skin tropism of prostate cancer cells, neither in 
the case of BRCA-associated cancers.
PATIENT CONCERNS: Here, we report the case of a patient with a long history of 
BRCA1-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who developed a 
skin lesion on the scalp while on his fifth line of systemic therapy with 
olaparib. After a complete radical surgical excision, the pathology report 
showed prostate cancer localization.
DIAGNOSES: A diagnosis of skin metastasis from prostate cancer was reported.
OUTCOMES: The patient then continued olaparib therapy; after 7 months from 
excision, he experienced further bone and biochemical progression but not 
cutaneous progression.
LESSONS: A literature review of all reported cases of cutaneous metastasis in 
prostate cancer was conducted to shed light on the incidence, clinical 
presentation, diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis of this entity. We also 
reviewed published cases of skin metastasis in BRCA-associated cancers with an 
effort to correlate skin involvement with PARPi treatment, BRCAness status, and 
prognosis.

Copyright © 2024 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000040016
PMCID: PMC11479501
PMID: 39465866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.

PMID: 39461277
Abstract: 1. DNA Repair (Amst). 2024 Oct 19;144:103775. doi: 10.1016/j.dnarep.2024.103775. 
Online ahead of print.

Positioning loss of PARP1 activity as the central toxic event in BRCA-deficient 
cancer.

MacGilvary N(1), Cantor SB(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular, Cell and Cancer Biology, University of Massachusetts 
Chan Medical School, Worcester, MA 01605, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular, Cell and Cancer Biology, University of Massachusetts 
Chan Medical School, Worcester, MA 01605, USA. Electronic address: 
sharon.cantor@umassmed.edu.

The mechanisms by which poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) inhibitors 
(PARPi)s inflict replication stress and/or DNA damage are potentially numerous. 
PARPi toxicity could derive from loss of its catalytic activity and/or its 
physical trapping of PARP1 onto DNA that perturbs not only PARP1 function in DNA 
repair and DNA replication, but also obstructs compensating pathways. The 
combined disruption of PARP1 with either of the hereditary breast and ovarian 
cancer genes, BRCA1 or BRCA2 (BRCA), results in synthetic lethality. This has 
driven the development of PARP inhibitors as therapies for BRCA-mutant cancers. 
In this review, we focus on recent findings that highlight loss of PARP1 
catalytic activity, rather than PARPi-induced allosteric trapping, as central to 
PARPi efficacy in BRCA deficient cells. However, we also review findings that 
PARP-trapping is an effective strategy in other genetic deficiencies. Together, 
we conclude that the mechanism-of-action of PARP inhibitors is not unilateral; 
with loss of activity or enhanced trapping differentially killing depending on 
the genetic context. Therefore, effectively targeting cancer cells requires an 
intricate understanding of their key underlying vulnerabilities.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dnarep.2024.103775
PMID: 39461277

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

PMID: 39507018
Abstract: 1. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2024 Oct 31;13(10):2660-2672. doi:
10.21037/tlcr-24-339.  Epub 2024 Oct 28.

SWItch/Sucrose Nonfermentable complex-deficient pulmonary neoplasms: 
clinicopathologic characteristics and outcomes to radiotherapy and 
immunotherapy.

Gu Y(#)(1)(2)(3)(4), Lai S(#)(1)(2)(3)(4), Yang J(#)(5), Zhang J(1)(2)(3)(4), 
Fan X(1)(2)(3)(4), Zheng Q(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Shanghai Cancer Center, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Oncology, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.
(3)Shanghai Clinical Research Center for Radiation Oncology, Shanghai, China.
(4)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Radiation Oncology, Shanghai, China.
(5)Xiaogan Hospital Affiliated to Wuhan University of Science and Technology, 
Xiaogan, China.
(6)Department of Pathology, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, Shanghai, 
China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The SWItch/Sucrose Nonfermentable (SWI/SNF) complex, a multi-subunit 
chromatin remodeler, is linked to aggressive tumors when deficient. Accurate 
identification of SWI/SNF expression status is crucial for tailoring targeted 
therapies. Previous studies on the efficacy of immunotherapy for 
SWI/SNF-deficient (SWI/SNF-d) pulmonary tumors primarily focus on non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC), with limited data on other modalities like radiotherapy. 
This study aims to analyze the clinicopathological characteristics and 
prognostic factors of SWI/SNF-d pulmonary neoplasms, including NSCLC and 
undifferentiated tumors, and to evaluate the effectiveness of radiotherapy and 
immunotherapy, providing a foundation for improved treatment strategies and 
prognostic assessments.
METHODS: Patient data on SWI/SNF-d pulmonary neoplasms were collected from Fudan 
University Shanghai Cancer Center, assessing ARID1A, SMARCA2, SMARCA4, and 
SMARCB1 subunit expression via immunohistochemistry, with retrospective analysis 
of survival and treatment results.
RESULTS: The study analyzed 101 SWI/SNF-d pulmonary neoplasms from 675 SWI/SNF-d 
cancer patients (January 2017 to August 2023), mostly male smokers, showing high 
malignancy. Clinicopathologic features were consistent across patients with 
various SWI/SNF subunit deficiencies. TP53 was the most common co-mutated gene 
(71%), followed by STK11, CDKN2A, KRAS, APC, and EGFR. Key prognostic factors 
for overall survival (OS) were distant metastasis, radiotherapy, and 
immunotherapy. Immunotherapy improved 3-year OS rates from 20.8% to 68.4% 
(P<0.001). KRAS-mutated patients on immunotherapy showed a lower 1-year survival 
rate (60.0% vs. 83.1%, P=0.08). Radiotherapy increased 3-year OS rates to 61.7% 
from 30.7% (P=0.012). Of 38 patients treated with immunotherapy, 16 benefited 
from radiotherapy [median OS: 31.4 months vs. not estimable (NE), P=0.045], with 
an average 17.2 days between radiotherapy and immunotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: SWI/SNF-d pulmonary neoplasms, whether with multiple or single 
subunit losses, exhibit similar clinicopathological characteristics. 
Radiotherapy and immunotherapy are effective treatments for these patients, and 
the combination of radiotherapy with immunotherapy may offer synergistic 
effects.

2024 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/tlcr-24-339
PMCID: PMC11535837
PMID: 39507018

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
https://tlcr.amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/tlcr-24-339/coif). The authors 
have no conflicts of interest to declare.

PMID: 39506768
Abstract: 1. J Ovarian Res. 2024 Nov 6;17(1):218. doi: 10.1186/s13048-024-01538-6.

A novel ITGB8 transcript variant sustains ovarian cancer cell survival through 
genomic instability and altered ploidy on a mutant p53 background.

Narayanan A(#)(1)(2), More AS(#)(1)(2), Talreja M(1)(3), Mali AM(1), Vinay 
SB(1), Bapat SA(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Cell Science, Pune, 411007, India.
(2)Savitribai Phule Pune University, Pune, India.
(3)Institute for Excellence in Higher Education (IEHE), Kaliyasot Dam, Kolar 
Road, Bhopal, 46202, India.
(4)National Centre for Cell Science, Pune, 411007, India. sabapat@nccs.res.in.
(5)Savitribai Phule Pune University, Pune, India. sabapat@nccs.res.in.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Transcript variants and protein isoforms are central to unique 
tissue functions and maintenance of homeostasis, in addition to being associated 
with aberrant states such as cancer, where their crosstalk with the mutated 
tumor suppressor p53 may contribute to genomic instability and chromosomal 
rearrangements. We previously identified several novel splice variants in 
ovarian cancer RNA-sequencing datasets; herein, we aimed to elucidate the 
biological effects of the Integrin Subunit Beta 8 variant (termed pITGB8-205).
METHODS: Resolution of the full-length sequence of pITGB8-205 through rapid 
amplification of cDNA ends (RACE-PCR). Cell cycle analysis and karyotype studies 
were performed to further explore genomic instability. RNA-seq and proteomics 
analyses were used to identify the differential expression of the genes.
RESULTS: This full-length study revealed a unique 5' sequence in pITGB8-205 that 
differed from the reported ITGB8-205 sequence, suggesting differential 
regulation of this novel transcript. Under a p53 mutant background, 
overexpression of pITGB8-205 triggered genetic instability reminiscent of 
oncogene-induced replicative stress with extensive abnormal mitoses and 
chromosomal and nuclear aberrations indicative of chromosomal instability, 
leading to near whole-genome duplication that imposes energy stress on cellular 
resources. Micronuclei and aneuploidy are striking features of 
pITGB8-205-overexpressing p53-mutant cells but are not enhanced in p53 wild-type 
(WT) cells. RNA-seq and proteomics analyses further suggested that p53 
inactivation in ovarian cancer provides a permissive intracellular molecular 
niche for pITGB8-205 to mediate its effects on genomic instability. This 
observation is pivotal considering that most high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma 
(HGSC) tumors express mutant p53. The resulting aneuploid clones with enhanced 
self-renewal and survival capabilities disrupt clonal dominance under stress yet 
maintain a balance between replicative stress and prosurvival advantages.
CONCLUSION: pITGB8-205-overexpressing clones sustain ovarian tumor cell 
survival, achieve homeostasis and are formidable opponents of therapy.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13048-024-01538-6
PMID: 39506768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

PMID: 39506445
Abstract: 1. Curr Pharm Des. 2024 Nov 5. doi: 10.2174/0113816128337881241016064641. Online 
ahead of print.

Design, Synthesis, and Molecular Docking of Quinazolines Bearing Caffeoyl Moiety 
for Targeting of PGK1/PKM2/STAT3 Signaling Pathway in the Human Breast Cancer.

Borik RM(1), Hussein MA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Sciences, Chemistry Division, College of Science, 
Jazan University, P.O. Box. 114, Jazan 45142, KSA.
(2)Biotechnology Department, Faculty of Applied Health Science Technology, 
October 6 University, Giza 28125, Egypt.

BACKGROUND: PGK1 and PKM2 are glycolytic enzymes, and their expression is 
upregulated in cancer cells. STAT3 is a transcription factor implicated in 
breast cancer progression and chemoresistance. Researchers worldwide continue to 
explore how targeting genes might lead to more effective anti-breast cancer 
therapies. The present study aims to synthesize quinazolines containing caffeoyl 
moiety for developing innovative anticancer agents against the human breast 
cancer cell line (MCF-7).
METHODS: A new quinazoline 2 was synthesized by reacting caffeic acid with 
5-amino-phenylpyrazole carboxylate 1 in the presence of PCl3. Compound 2 reacted 
with NH2NH2.H2O to produce compound 3 through cyclo-condensation. Apoptosis and 
necrosis as well as inhibition activity compounds 2 and 3 against PGK1, and PKM2 
were evaluated. The effect of compounds 2 and 3 on the levels of GSH, GR, SOD, 
GPx, CAT, MDA, Bax, Bcl-2, caspase-3, P53 and VEGF levels as well as PGK1, PKM2 
and STAT3 gene expression were estimated in MCF-7 tumor cells.
RESULTS: The viability of MCF-7 cells was reduced to 22.42% and 45.86% after 
incubation with compounds 2 and 3 for 48 hours, respectively. The IC50 values 
for compounds 2 and 3 are 62.05 μg/mL and 16.73 μg/mL. Furthermore, compound 3 
exhibited more significant apoptosis and necrosis than compound 2. IC50 values 
of compound 2 against PGK1, and PKM2 at interval concentration equals 1.04, and 
0.32 μM/mL, respectively, after 210 minutes of incubation. Moreover, compound 3 
were revealed strong inhibition of PGK1, and PKM2 with IC50 values equals 0.55 
and 0.21 μg/mL, respectively after 210 minutes of incubation. Our results proved 
that the incubation of compounds 2 and 3 with MCF-7 cells increased the levels 
of apoptotic proteins, elevated MDA, Bax, caspase-3 and P53 levels, depleted 
GSH, GR, SOD, GPx, CAT, Bcl-2 levels and downregulated the levels of STAT3, 
PGK1, and PKM2 gene expression significantly. Our In-silico results proved that 
compound 2 showed a stronger estimated binding affinity with a ΔG of -7.2, -7.5, 
and - 7.9 kcal/mol., respectively towards PGK1, PKM2 and STAT3 proteins. Also, 
compound 3 exhibits a strong binding affinity with ΔG of -7.9, -8.5, and - 8.7 
kcal/mol., towards PGK1, PKM2 and STAT3 proteins.
CONCLUSION: The results show that compounds 2 and 3 induce apoptotic activity by 
blocking the PGK1- PKM2-STAT3 signaling pathway. The present investigation opens 
exciting possibilities for developing innovative new anticancer quinazolines 
bearing caffeoyl moiety.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113816128337881241016064641
PMID: 39506445

PMID: 39506070
Abstract: 1. Sci Rep. 2024 Nov 6;14(1):26994. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-78467-3.

Construction and validation of a prognostic signature based on microvascular 
invasion and immune-related genes in hepatocellular carcinoma.

Li H(#)(1), Qiao L(#)(2), Kong M(#)(1), Fang H(1), Yan Z(1)(3)(4), Guo R(5)(6), 
Guo W(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Zhengzhou University, No. 1, East Jianshe Road, Zhengzhou, 450052, 
Henan, China.
(2)Thyroid Surgery Department, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, China.
(3)Henan Key Laboratory for Hepatopathy and Transplantation Medicine, Zhengzhou, 
China.
(4)Henan Engineering & Research Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of 
Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgical Diseases, Zhengzhou, China.
(5)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Zhengzhou University, No. 1, East Jianshe Road, Zhengzhou, 450052, 
Henan, China. ranguo16@163.com.
(6)National Organ Transplantation Physician Training Center, Zhengzhou, China. 
ranguo16@163.com.
(7)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Zhengzhou University, No. 1, East Jianshe Road, Zhengzhou, 450052, 
Henan, China. guowz66@163.com.
(8)Department of Henan Key Laboratory of Digestive Organ Transplantation, The 
First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, China. 
guowz66@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Microvascular invasion (MVI) is an independent risk factor of poor 
prognosis in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and can be used to guide the 
diagnosis and treatment of HCC. The immune system serves as an integral role in 
the incidence and progression of HCC. However, the molecular biology correlation 
between MVI and tumor immunity and the value of combining the two parameters to 
predict patient prognosis and HCC response to treatment remain to be evaluated.
RESULTS: In this study, we used univariate Cox regression analysis and least 
absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox analysis to establish the 
MVI and immune-related gene index (MIRGPI) including eight genes. We 
demonstrated that the MIRGPI was an independent risk factor in predicting the 
prognosis of HCC. Subsequently, our research established a nomogram model 
combining pathologic characteristics and verified its good clinical application 
value. In addition, our study found that the TP53 gene had a higher mutation 
frequency and a lower degree of immune infiltration in the high-risk group. The 
low-risk group had higher sensitivity to immunotherapy, sorafenib, and TACE 
treatment, and the high-risk group had higher sensitivity to common 
chemotherapeutic agents. Finally, SEMA3C was found to facilitate the 
proliferation, migration and invasive ability of HCC by in vitro and in vivo 
experiments, and its mechanism may be associated with the activation of the 
NF-Κb/EMT signaling pathway.
CONCLUSIONS: In summary, the MIRGPI signature we developed is a reliable marker 
for the prediction of prognosis and treatment response, and is important for the 
prognostic assessment and individualized treatment of HCC.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-78467-3
PMID: 39506070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

PMID: 39505995
Abstract: 1. Sci Rep. 2024 Nov 6;14(1):26893. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-78383-6.

FKBP4 promotes glycolysis and hepatocellular carcinoma progression via p53/HK2 
axis.

Zeng Z(1)(2), Xu S(1)(2), Wang R(3)(4), Han X(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, China.
(2)Henan Medical Key Laboratory of Molecular Imaging, Zhengzhou, China.
(3)Department of Nuclear Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, China. wangruihua2004@126.com.
(4)Henan Medical Key Laboratory of Molecular Imaging, Zhengzhou, China. 
wangruihua2004@126.com.
(5)Department of Nuclear Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, China. xmhan@zzu.edu.cn.
(6)Henan Medical Key Laboratory of Molecular Imaging, Zhengzhou, China. 
xmhan@zzu.edu.cn.

FKBP4, a member of the FK506-binding protein (FKBP) family, is a promising 
target for a variety of disorders, including cancer. However, its underlying 
molecular mechanism and potential function in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) are 
largely elusive. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the expression status, 
functional implications and underlying mechanisms of FKBP4 in HCC. Our 
bioinformatics analysis of TCGA LIHC datasets, ICGC LIRI-JP datasets and GEO 
datasets results showed FKBP4 was upregulated in HCC tissues. We also confirmed 
the elevated FKBP4 in clinical HCC samples. Additionally, quantitative RT-PCR 
results revealed FKBP4 was highly expressed in all five tested HCC cell lines. 
We also observed a correlation between elevated FKBP4 expression and poor 
prognosis in HCC patients. Loss of FKBP4 can inhibit the proliferation and 
migration in HCC cells. Furthermore, we found that silencing FKBP4 suppressed 
glucose uptake, lactic acid production and 18F-FDG uptake compared with the 
control group. Mechanistically, our funding indicated that FKBP4 participates in 
glycolysis through p53 mediated HK2 signaling pathway, specially, FKBP4 
knockdown promotes the expression and stability of p53 protein rather than 
affecting the transcription level. Finally, rescue experiments revealed that 
simultaneous knockdown of both FKBP4 and p53 partially reversed the inhibitory 
effects on HK2 protein levels and 18F-FDG uptake. Our study elucidates a novel 
role of FKBP4 in promoting HCC development and glycolysis by modulating the 
p53/HK2 signaling pathway. Given the critical role of aerobic glycolysis in the 
progression of HCC, targeting FKBP4 may offer a new therapeutic strategy for 
treating this malignancy.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-78383-6
PMID: 39505995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

PMID: 39505505
Abstract: 1. J Nippon Med Sch. 2024;91(5):472-479. doi: 10.1272/jnms.JNMS.2024_91-512.

The Current Status of Comprehensive Genomic Profiling in the Management of 
Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer: A Study from a Cooperative 
Hospital for Cancer Genomic Medicine in Japan.

Akatsuka J(1), Kimura G(1), Takadate M(1)(2)(3), Hiraoka S(4), Sahara T(4), Iwai 
T(5), Hasegawa H(1), Mikami H(1), Obayashi K(1), Takeda H(1), Endo Y(1), Toyama 
Y(1), Yamamoto Y(1)(2)(3), Yamada T(4)(5), Kondo Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Nippon Medical School.
(2)Pathology Informatics Team, RIKEN Center for Advanced Intelligence Project.
(3)Mathematical Intelligence for Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, Tohoku 
University.
(4)Department of Genetics, Nippon Medical School.
(5)Department of Digestive Surgery, Nippon Medical School.

BACKGROUND: Several effective treatment modalities against metastatic 
castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) are available; however, an unmet 
clinical need persists for mCRPC treatment because resistance to these therapies 
is inevitable. This study aimed to evaluate the status of comprehensive genomic 
profiling (CGP) and its impact on subsequent treatments for patients with mCRPC 
at our hospital.
METHODS: Between December 2020 and August 2023, we assessed 41 patients with 
mCRPC who underwent CGP testing at the Nippon Medical School Hospital. The 
testing comprised FoundationOne® CDx for 30 patients and FoundationOne® Liquid 
CDx for 11 patients, following the procedures outlined by the Japanese 
Urological Association.
RESULTS: CGP testing was successfully conducted in 40 out of 41 patients 
(97.6%), which resulted in the identification of 140 actionable genomic 
alterations. The most common alteration was TP53 in 12 patients (30.0%). 
Twenty-three patients (57.5%) with druggable gene alterations were identified; 
21 were recommended for clinical trials, four for patient-proposed healthcare 
services, and six for insurance-covered drugs. Consequently, genotype-matched 
therapy with insurance-covered drugs was administered to five patients (12.5%) 
with a BRCA2 mutation. Notably, none of the patients underwent clinical or 
prospective trials based on patient-suggested medical services.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results offer insights into the real-world application of CGP 
testing for patients with mCRPC at a cooperative hospital for cancer genomic 
medicine in Japan. Thus, urologists require a comprehensive understanding of the 
current status of CGP testing to enhance mCRPC management.

DOI: 10.1272/jnms.JNMS.2024_91-512
PMID: 39505505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

PMID: 39504561
Abstract: 1. Blood Adv. 2024 Nov 6:bloodadvances.2024013304. doi: 
10.1182/bloodadvances.2024013304. Online ahead of print.

Validation of the Revised 2022 European LeukemiaNet Risk Stratification in Adult 
Patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia.

Ruhnke L(1), Bill M(1), Zukunft S(1), Eckardt JN(1), Schäfer S(2), Stasik S(1), 
Hanoun M(3), Schroeder T(3), Fransecky L(4), Steffen B(5), Krause SW(6), Scholl 
S(7), Hochhaus A(7), Sauer T(8), Kraus S(9), Schäfer-Eckart K(10), Kaufmann 
M(11), Jost E(12), Brümmendorf TH(12), Schliemann C(13), Mikesch JH(13), Krug 
U(14), Hänel M(15), Morgner A(15), Schaich M(16), Neubauer A(17), Repp R(18), 
Niemann D(19), Seggewiss-Bernhardt R(20), Meinhardt A(21), Kullmer J(22), Kaiser 
U(23), Blau W(24), Kiani A(25), Grigoleit GU(26), Giagounidis A(27), Wurm AA(2), 
Altmann H(1), Middeke JMM(1), Schetelig J(1), Müller-Tidow C(8), Stölzel F(4), 
Baldus CD(4), Platzbecker U(28), Serve H(5), Bornhäuser M(1), Thiede C(29), 
Röllig C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, University Hospital Dresden, TU Dresden, 
Dresden, Germany, Germany.
(2)National Center for Tumor Diseases Dresden (NCT/UCC), Medical Faculty and 
University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, 
Germany.
(3)Department of Hematology, University Hospital Essen, University of 
Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany, Germany.
(4)Department of Hematology and Oncology, University Hospital 
Schleswig-Holstein, Campus Kiel, Kiel, Germany, Germany.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine II, University Hospital Frankfurt, Frankfurt, 
Germany, Germany.
(6)Uni-Klinikum Erlangen, Erlangen, Germany.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine II, Hematology and Medical Oncology, 
University Hospital Jena, Jena, Germany, Germany.
(8)Department of Internal Medicine V, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, 
Germany, Germany.
(9)Uniklinikum Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany.
(10)Klinikum Nuernberg, Nuernberg, Germany.
(11)Robert Bosch Hospital Stuttgart, Stuttgart, Germany.
(12)Department of Hematology, Oncology, Hemostaseology and Stem Cell 
Transplantation, University Hospital Aachen & CIO ABCD Aachen, RWTH Aachen, 
Aachen, Germany, Germany.
(13)Department of Medicine A, University Hospital Münster, Münster, Germany, 
Germany.
(14)Klinikum Leverkusen, Leverkusen, Germany.
(15)Department of Internal Medicine III, Klinikum Chemnitz, Chemnitz, Germany, 
Germany.
(16)Rems-Murr-Klinikum Winnenden, Winnenden, Germany.
(17)Philipps-University, Marburg, Germany.
(18)2. Medizinische Klinik, Städtisches Krankenhaus Kiel, Kiel, Germany.
(19)Gemeinschaftsklinikum Mittelrhein, Koblenz, Germany.
(20)Department of Internal Medicine V, Sozialstiftung Bamberg, Bamberg, Germany.
(21)Agaplesion Diakonieklinikum Rotenburg, Achim, Germany.
(22)DIAKO Bremen, Bremen, Germany.
(23)St. Bernward Krankenhaus, Hildesheim, Germany.
(24)Helios Dr. Horst Schmidt Klinikum Wiesbaden, Wiesbaden, Germany.
(25)Klinikum Bayreuth, Bayreuth, Germany.
(26)Klinikum Kassel, Kassel, Germany.
(27)Marien Hospital, DÃ1/4sseldorf, Germany.
(28)University Hospital Leipzig, Department of Hematology and Cell Therapy, 
Leipzig, Germany.
(29)Department of Internal Medicine I, University Hospital Dresden, TU Dresden, 
Dresden, Germany and Agendix GmbH, Dresden, Germany, Germany.

In 2022, the European LeukemiaNet (ELN) risk stratification for patients with 
AML has been updated. We aimed to validate the prognostic value of the 2022 ELN 
classification (ELN22) evaluating 1,570 newly diagnosed AML patients (median 
age, 56 years) treated with cytarabine-based intensive chemotherapy regimens. As 
compared to the 2017 ELN classification (ELN17), allocating 595 (38%), 413 (26%) 
and 562 (36%) patients to the favorable, intermediate and adverse risk category, 
ELN22 risk was favorable, intermediate, and adverse in 575 (37%), 410 (26%), and 
585 (37%) patients, respectively. Risk group allocation was revised in 340 
patients (22%). Most patients were re-classified into ELN22 intermediate or 
ELN22 adverse risk group. The allocation of patients according to the ELN22 risk 
categories resulted in a significantly distinct event-free survival (EFS), 
relapse-free survival (RFS), and overall survival (OS). As compared to ELN17, 
reallocation according to the ELN22 recommendations resulted in a significantly 
improved prognostic discrimination for OS (3-year area under the curve (AUC) 
0.71 vs. 0.67). In patients with ELN22 favorable risk AML, co-occurring MR gene 
mutations did not significantly impact outcome. Within the ELN22 adverse risk 
group, we observed marked survival differences across mutational groups (5-year 
OS rate of 21% and 3% in patients with myelodysplasia-related (MR) gene 
mutations and TP53-mutated patients, respectively). In patients harboring MR 
gene mutations, EZH2-, STAG2- and ZRSR2-mutated patients showed an 
intermediate-like OS. In patients with secondary AML and those who underwent 
allogeneic HCT, EFS and OS significantly differed between ELN22 risk groups, 
while prognostic abilities of ELN17 and ELN22 classifications were similar. In 
conclusion, the ELN22 risk stratification improves prognostic discrimination in 
a large cohort of intensively treated AML patients. Given the heterogeneous 
outcome in patients with MR gene alterations, ranging between those of 
intermediate and adverse risk patients, we suggest reevaluation of risk 
allocation in these patients.

Copyright © 2024 American Society of Hematology.

DOI: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2024013304
PMID: 39504561

PMID: 39501301
Abstract: 1. Clin Epigenetics. 2024 Nov 5;16(1):154. doi: 10.1186/s13148-024-01769-w.

Integrative analysis based on ATAC-seq and RNA-seq reveals a novel oncogene 
PRPF3 in hepatocellular carcinoma.

Bai Y(#)(1), Deng X(#)(2), Chen D(#)(2), Han S(#)(2), Lin Z(2), Li Z(3), Tong 
W(2), Li J(2), Wang T(4), Liu X(4), Liu Z(1), Cui Z(1), Zhang Y(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, School of Medicine, Tianjin First 
Central Hospital, Nankai University, Tianjin, China.
(2)Tianjin First Central Hospital Clinic Institute, Tianjin Medical University, 
Tianjin, 300192, China.
(3)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, Tianjin Nankai Hospital, 
Tianjin, China.
(4)School of Medicine, Nankai University, Tianjin, 300071, China.
(5)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, School of Medicine, Tianjin First 
Central Hospital, Nankai University, Tianjin, China. 5020200824@nankai.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Assay of Transposase Accessible Chromatin Sequencing (ATAC-seq) is a 
high-throughput sequencing technique that detects open chromatin regions across 
the genome. These regions are critical in facilitating transcription factor 
binding and subsequent gene expression. Herein, we utilized ATAC-seq to identify 
key molecular targets regulating the development and progression of 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and elucidate the underlying mechanisms.
METHODS: We first compared chromatin accessibility profiles between HCC and 
normal tissues. Subsequently, RNA-seq data was employed to identify 
differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Integrating ATAC-seq and RNA-seq data 
allowed the identification of transcription factors and their putative target 
genes associated with differentially accessible regions (DARs). Finally, 
functional experiments were conducted to investigate the effects of the 
identified regulatory factors and corresponding targets on HCC cell 
proliferation and migration.
RESULTS: Enrichment analysis of DARs between HCC and adjacent normal tissues 
revealed distinct signaling pathways and regulatory factors. Upregulated DARs in 
HCC were enriched in genes related to the MAPK and FoxO signaling pathways and 
associated with transcription factor families like ETS and AP-1. Conversely, 
downregulated DARs were associated with the TGF-β, cAMP, and p53 signaling 
pathways and the CTCF family. Integration of the datasets revealed a positive 
correlation between specific DARs and DEGs. Notably, PRPF3 emerged as a gene 
associated with DARs in HCC, and functional assays demonstrated its ability to 
promote HCC cell proliferation and migration. To the best of our knowledge, this 
is the first report highlighting the oncogenic role of PRPF3 in HCC. 
Furthermore, ZNF93 expression positively correlated with PRPF3, and ChIP-seq 
data indicated its potential role as a transcription factor regulating PRPF3 by 
binding to its promoter region.
CONCLUSION: This study provides a comprehensive analysis of the epigenetic 
landscape in HCC, encompassing both chromatin accessibility and the 
transcriptome. Our findings reveal that ZNF93 promotes the proliferation and 
motility of HCC cells through transcriptional regulation of a novel oncogene, 
PRPF3.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13148-024-01769-w
PMCID: PMC11539654
PMID: 39501301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

PMID: 39500102
Abstract: 1. Colloids Surf B Biointerfaces. 2024 Oct 31;245:114348. doi: 
10.1016/j.colsurfb.2024.114348. Online ahead of print.

Electrospun nanofibrous scaffolds reinforced with therapeutic 
lithium/manganese-doped calcium phosphates: Advancing skin cancer therapy 
through apoptosis induction.

Gorgani S(1), Kermani F(1), Sadeghzadeh K(2), Vojdani A(3), Hooshmand S(4), 
Foroughi K(2), Azari Z(2), Hosseini SA(5), Mollazadeh S(3), Bideskan AE(6), 
Nazarnezhad S(7).

Author information:
(1)Tissue Engineering Research Group (TERG), Department of Anatomy and Cell 
Biology, School of Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad 
917794-8564, Iran.
(2)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, School of Medicine, Mashhad 
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad 917794-8564, Iran.
(3)Department of Materials Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Ferdowsi 
University of Mashhad (FUM), Azadi Sq., Mashhad 917794-8564, Iran.
(4)Department of Biological and Chemical Engineering, Aarhus 
University, Aarhus, Denmark. Electronic address: sarah@bce.au.dk.
(5)Department of Medical Biotechnology and Nanotechnology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Biological Sciences 
(IZN), Buchman Institute for Molecular Life Sciences (BMLS), Goethe-Universität 
Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(6)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, School of Medicine, Mashhad 
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad 917794-8564, Iran; Applied Biomedical 
Research Center, School of Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical 
Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. Electronic address: ebrahimzadehba@mums.ac.ir.
(7)Tissue Engineering Research Group (TERG), Department of Anatomy and Cell 
Biology, School of Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad 
917794-8564, Iran; Metabolic Syndrome Research Center, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. Electronic address: nazarnezhads@mums.ac.ir.

In the current study we fabricated potent materials by incorporating therapeutic 
elements into calcium phosphates (CPs) to combat cancer. This involved 
synthesizing manganese (Mn)- and lithium (Li)-doped CPs and loading them into 
electrospun nanofibers (NFs) composed of chitosan (CS) and polyethylene oxide 
(PEO). The characterized CPs exhibited excellent properties, including a 
particle size of 47-75 nm, surface charge of -(30-56) mV, and specific surface 
area of 75-266 m2/g. The electrochemical analysis revealed that Mn and 
Mn/Li-doped CPs are promising for generating oxygen free radicals and H2O2, 
crucial for cancer therapy. Biological evaluation showcased the outstanding 
performance of the developed materials. MTT assay revealed a cytotoxic effect of 
nano-constructs on melanoma A375 cell line without adverse effects on normal 
L929 cells over 72 h. Annexin V/PI apoptosis assay indicated substantial 
apoptosis rates in A375 cells treated with PC-20 % (62.55 ± 4.59 %). The 
obtained data of qPCR analysis of pro-apoptotic and anti-apoptotic genes (P53, 
Bax, Bcl-2) in A375 cells treated with different CP nanoparticles (NPs) showed a 
significant increase in P53 and Bax gene expression, indicating high levels of 
A375 cell apoptosis. Additionally, the samples containing Mn ion exhibited high 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation. In conclusion, the fabricated NFs 
scaffolds hold promising potential for cancer therapy.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.colsurfb.2024.114348
PMID: 39500102

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

PMID: 39499447
Abstract: 1. Endocr Pathol. 2024 Nov 5. doi: 10.1007/s12022-024-09833-0. Online ahead of 
print.

SATB2 is an Emergent Biomarker of Anaplastic Thyroid Carcinoma: A Series with 
Comprehensive Biomarker and Molecular Studies.

Nkosi D(1), Crowe WE(1), Altman BJ(2)(3), Oltvai ZN(1), Giampoli EJ(1), Velez 
MJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Rochester 
Medical Center, Rochester, NY, 14642, USA.
(2)Department of Biomedical Genetics, University of Rochester School of Medicine 
and Dentistry, Rochester, NY, 14642, USA.
(3)Wilmot Cancer Institute, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, 
NY, 14642, USA.
(4)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Rochester 
Medical Center, Rochester, NY, 14642, USA. Moises_Velez@URMC.Rochester.edu.

Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC) is a rare and aggressive thyroid malignancy 
typically comprised of undifferentiated tumor cells with various histologic 
morphologies, which makes the diagnosis challenging. These tumors commonly show 
loss of thyroglobulin and TTF1 with preservation of cytokeratin (67%) and Paired 
Box Gene 8 (PAX8) (55%) expression. Identification of a sensitive 
immunohistochemical stain to aid in the diagnosis of ATC would be beneficial. 
Immunohistochemistry (IHC) against special AT-rich sequence-binding protein 2 
(SATB2) protein is a sensitive and specific marker expressed in colorectal 
adenocarcinoma and bone or soft tissue tumors with osteoblastic differentiation. 
However, SATB2 is also expressed in other sarcomatous/undifferentiated neoplasms 
lacking osteoblastic differentiation. Using quantitative reverse transcription 
PCR (RT-qPCR) we showed that there is variable expression of SATB2 mRNA 
expression in ATCs. To evaluate the role of SATB2 protein expression in ATC, we 
performed PAX8, SATB2, pancytokeratin (AE1/AE3 & CAM5.2), claudin-4 and TTF1 
immunostaining on 23 cases. ATCs showed retained expression of PAX8 in 65% 
(15/23); SATB2 was detected in 74% (17/23); pancytokeratin was expressed in 65% 
(15/23); claudin-4 was expressed in 35% (8/23) and TTF1 showed expression in 13% 
(3/23) of cases. Furthermore, 83% (5/6) of ATCs which lacked SATB2 expression, 
retained PAX8 expression, while 88% (7/8) of the tumors without PAX8 expression 
were positive for SATB2. Differentiated follicular cell-derived thyroid cancers 
(n = 30), differentiated high grade thyroid carcinoma (n = 3), and poorly 
differentiated thyroid carcinoma (n = 8) were negative for SATB2 
immunoreactivity. Next-generation selected cases detected the commonly 
identified oncogenic variants including those in BRAF, RAS, TP53, and TERT 
promoter. Overall, we hereby demonstrate that SATB2 IHC may be used to support 
the diagnosis of ATC.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12022-024-09833-0
PMID: 39499447

PMID: 39499101
Abstract: 1. Integr Biol (Camb). 2024 Jan 23;16:zyae018. doi: 10.1093/intbio/zyae018.

Network dynamics investigation of omics-data-driven circadian-hypoxia crosstalk 
logical model in gallbladder cancer reveals key therapeutic target combinations.

Singh A(1), Dwivedi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioengineering and Biotechnology, Birla Institute of 
Technology, Mesra, Ranchi 835215, Jharkhand, India.

Recent findings in cancer research have pointed towards the bidirectional 
interaction between circadian and hypoxia pathways. However, little is known 
about their crosstalk mechanism. In this work, we aimed to investigate this 
crosstalk at a network level utilizing the omics information of gallbladder 
cancer. Differential gene expression and pathway enrichment analysis were used 
for selecting the crucial genes from both the pathways, followed by the 
construction of a logical crosstalk model using GINsim. Functional circuit 
identification and node perturbations were then performed. Significant node 
combinations were used to investigate the temporal behavior of the network 
through MaBoSS. Lastly, the model was validated using published in vitro 
experimentations. Four new positive circuits and a new axis viz. BMAL1/ HIF1αβ/ 
NANOG, responsible for stemness were identified. Through triple node 
perturbations viz.a. BMAL:CLOCK (KO or E1) + P53 (E1) + HIF1α (KO); b. P53 
(E1) + HIF1α (KO) + MYC (E1); and c. HIF1α (KO) + MYC (E1) + EGFR (KO), the 
model was able to inhibit cancer growth and maintain a homeostatic condition. 
This work provides an architecture for drug simulation analysis to entrainment 
circadian rhythm and in vitro experiments for chronotherapy-related studies. 
Insight Box. Circadian rhythm and hypoxia are the key dysregulated processes 
which fuels-up the cancer growth. In the present work we have developed a 
gallbladder cancer (GBC) specific Boolean model, utilizing the RNASeq data from 
GBC dataset and tissue specific interactions. This work adequately models the 
bidirectional nature of interactions previously illustrated in experimental 
papers showing the effect of hypoxia on dysregulation of circadian rhythm and 
the influence of this disruption on progression towards metastasis. Through the 
dynamical study of the model and its response to different perturbations, we 
report novel triple node combinations that can be targeted to efficiently reduce 
GBC growth. This network can be used as a generalized framework to investigate 
different crosstalk pathways linked with cancer progression.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/intbio/zyae018
PMID: 39499101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

PMID: 39498677
Abstract: 1. Cell Biochem Funct. 2024 Dec;42(8):e70005. doi: 10.1002/cbf.70005.

Protective Effect of Biochanin A on Gamma Radiation-Induced Oxidative Stress, 
Antioxidant Status, Apoptotic, and DNA Repairing Molecules in Swiss Albino Mice.

Yang Y(1)(2), Yang W(3), Hu T(1)(4), Sun M(1)(4), Wang J(1)(5), Shen J(1)(4), 
Ding E(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)The First Central Clinical School, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, 
China.
(2)Department of Nuclear Medicine, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, China.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Fuwai Central China Cardiovascular Hospital, 
Zhengzhou, China.
(4)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Tianjin First Central Hospital, Tianjin, 
China.
(5)Department of Ultrasound, Tianjin First Central Hospital, Tianjin, China.

Radiation therapy is indispensable in medical practice but often causes adverse 
effects on healthy tissues, necessitating the search for natural 
radioprotectors. This study investigates the protective effect of Biochanin A 
(BCA) against gamma radiation-induced oxidative stress and DNA damage in Swiss 
albino mice. Gamma radiation, a potent ionizing source, generates reactive 
oxygen species (ROS) that damage cellular biomolecules, including DNA. 
Antioxidants play a crucial role in neutralizing ROS and preventing oxidative 
damage. Swiss albino mice were divided into control, BCA control (10 mg/kg body 
weight), radiation alone (7 Gy), and radiation+ BCA pretreatment groups. BCA, a 
natural isoflavone with known antioxidant and cytoprotective properties, was 
administered intraperitoneally before radiation exposure. After irradiation, 
lipid peroxidation levels, antioxidant enzyme activities/level (superoxide 
dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase and reduced glutathione), expression 
levels of DNA repair genes (P53, P21, GADD45α), apoptotic markers (Bax, Bcl-2, 
Caspase-3, -9 and Cytochrome-C), and inflammatory marker (NF-κB) were analyzed 
in small intestine tissue. Our findings indicate that gamma radiation 
significantly elevated lipid peroxidation levels and altered antioxidant enzyme 
activities, indicating oxidative stress. However, BCA pretreatment mitigated 
these effects by bolstering antioxidant defences, reducing radiation-induced 
oxidative damage. Additionally, BCA altered apoptotic markers, NF-κB expression, 
promoting cell survival mechanisms. At the molecular level, BCA pretreatment 
upregulated key DNA repair genes (P53, P21, GADD45α), crucial for repairing 
radiation-induced DNA damage and maintaining genomic stability. These results 
underscore BCA potential as a radioprotector, suggesting its efficacy in 
mitigating radiation-induced oxidative stress and preserving cellular integrity. 
In conclusion, BCA demonstrates promising radioprotective properties by 
attenuating oxidative stress, enhancing antioxidant defences, modulating 
apoptotic pathways, and promoting DNA repair mechanisms following gamma 
radiation exposure. Further research is necessary to elucidate its precise 
mechanisms of action and explore its potential therapeutic applications in 
radiation oncology and environmental radioprotection.

© 2024 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cbf.70005
PMID: 39498677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

PMID: 39497720
Abstract: 1. Front Oncol. 2024 Oct 21;14:1470827. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1470827.
eCollection  2024.

The potential role of next-generation sequencing in identifying MET 
amplification and disclosing resistance mechanisms in NSCLC patients with 
osimertinib resistance.

Xiao X(1)(2), Xu R(1)(2), Lu J(3), Xin B(2), Wang C(2), Zhu K(2), Zhang H(4), 
Chen X(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Physics, Changchun University of Science and Technology, Changchun, 
China.
(2)Research & Development Department, Shanghai Rightongene Biotechnology Co., 
Ltd., Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Shanghai Chest 
Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(4)School of Life Science and Technology, Changchun University of Science and 
Technology, Changchun, China.

PURPOSES: Osimertinib, one of the third-generation EGFR-tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors (TKIs) designed to target EGFR T790M mutation, significantly improves 
the prognosis of lung cancer. However, drug resistance still happens and MET 
amplification is responsible for one of the main causes. Fluorescence in situ 
hybridization (FISH) is the gold standard for MET amplification detection, but 
fundamentally limited by observer subjectivity. Herein, we assessed the value of 
next-generation sequencing (NGS) method in MET amplification detection in 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), as well as revealed the mutation profiling 
of NSCLC patients with osimertinib resistance to provide some valuable clues to 
the mechanisms of resistance.
METHODS: A total of 317 cancer tissue samples from 317 NSCLC patients at time of 
progression following osimertinib were submitted to NGS and only 96 tissues were 
tested by FISH simultaneously. With FISH results as gold standard, enumeration 
algorithm was applied to establish the optimal model for identifying MET 
amplification using gene copy number (GCN) data.
RESULTS: The optimal model for identifying MET amplification was constructed 
based on the GCN of MET, BRAF, CDK6 and CYP3A4, which achieved a 74.0% overall 
agreement with FISH and performed well in identifying MET amplification except 
polysomy with a sensitivity of 85.7% and a specificity of 93.9%. The 
inconsistency between NGS and FISH occurred mainly in polysomy subtype, while 
MET GCN ≥ 5 could be reliably recognized by NGS. Moreover, the most frequently 
mutated genes in NSCLC patients with osimertinib resistance were EGFR (59.94%), 
followed by TP53 (43.85%), NRG1 (9.46%), PIK3CA (6.31%), and ATM (5.36%). The 
known resistance mechanisms, including MET amplification, EGFR (C797S, L718Q/R), 
TP53, CDK4, CDK6, CDKN2A, BRAF, KRAS, NRAS and PIK3CA mutations were also 
disclosed in our cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: NGS assay can achieve a high concordance with FISH in MET 
amplification detection and has advantages in portraying various genetic 
alterations, which is of worthy in clinical promotion.

Copyright © 2024 Xiao, Xu, Lu, Xin, Wang, Zhu, Zhang and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1470827
PMCID: PMC11532092
PMID: 39497720

Conflict of interest statement: Author XX, RX, BX, CW, and KZ were employed by 
the company Shanghai Rightongene Biotechnology Co., Ltd. The remaining authors 
declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or 
financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest.

PMID: 39496981
Abstract: 1. Funct Integr Genomics. 2024 Nov 4;24(6):206. doi: 10.1007/s10142-024-01484-y.

Breast cancer genomic analyses reveal genes, mutations, and signaling networks.

Manjunath GK(1)(2), Sharma S(2), Nashier D(1)(2), Vasanthaiah S(1)(2), Jha S(2), 
Bage S(3), Mitra T(1)(2), Goyal P(3), Neerathilingam M(1)(2), Kumar A(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal, 576104, Karnataka, 
India.
(2)Institute of Bioinformatics, International Technology Park, Whitefield, 
Bangalore, 560066, Karnataka, India.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, School of Life Sciences, Central University of 
Rajasthan, Ajmer, Rajasthan, India.
(4)Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal, 576104, Karnataka, 
India. abhishek@ibioinformatics.org.
(5)Institute of Bioinformatics, International Technology Park, Whitefield, 
Bangalore, 560066, Karnataka, India. abhishek@ibioinformatics.org.

Breast cancer (BC) is the most commonly diagnosed cancer and the predominant 
cause of death in women. BC is a complex disorder, and the exploration of 
several types of BC omic data, highlighting genes, perturbations, signaling and 
cellular mechanisms, is needed. We collected mutational data from 9,555 BC 
samples using cBioPortal. We classified 1174 BC genes (mutated ≥ 40 samples) 
into five tiers (BCtier_I-V) and subjected them to pathway and protein‒protein 
network analyses using EnrichR and STRING 11, respectively. BCtier_I possesses 
12 BC genes with mutational frequencies > 5%, with only 5 genes possessing > 10% 
frequencies, namely, PIK3CA (35.7%), TP53 (34.3%), GATA3 (11.5%), CDH1 (11.4%) 
and MUC16 (11%), and the next seven BC genes are KMT2C (8.8%), TTN (8%), MAP3K1 
(8%), SYNE1 (7.2%), AHNAK2 (7%), USH2A (5.5%), and RYR2 (5.4%). Our pathway 
analyses revealed that the five top BC pathways were the PI3K-AKT, TP53, NOTCH, 
HIPPO, and RAS pathways. We found that BC panels share only seven genes. These 
findings show that BC arises from genetic disruptions evident in BC signaling 
and protein networks.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10142-024-01484-y
PMID: 39496981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

PMID: 39496922
Abstract: 1. Reprod Sci. 2024 Nov 4. doi: 10.1007/s43032-024-01744-z. Online ahead of
print.

Effect of Different Concentrations of PRP on the Expression of Factors Involved 
in the Endometrial Receptivity in the Human Endometrial Cells from RIF Patients 
Compared to the Controls.

Artimani T(1)(2), Asl SS(3)(4), Amiri I(3)(4), Pilehvari S(3), Yavangi M(3), 
Mohammadpour N(3), Moravej FG(4).

Author information:
(1)Fertility and Infertility Research Center, Hamadan University of Medical 
Sciences, Hamadan, 6517838736, Iran. artimani@umsha.ac.ir.
(2)Anatomy Department, School of Medicine, Hamadan University of Medical 
Sciences, Hamadan, Iran. artimani@umsha.ac.ir.
(3)Fertility and Infertility Research Center, Hamadan University of Medical 
Sciences, Hamadan, 6517838736, Iran.
(4)Anatomy Department, School of Medicine, Hamadan University of Medical 
Sciences, Hamadan, Iran.

Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) has been suggested for the improvement of endometrial 
growth and receptivity in the patients with recurrent implantation failure 
(RIF). The aim of present study was to investigate the impact of different 
concentration of PRP on the expression of genes involved in the endometrial 
receptivity in the human endometrial cells from RIF and controls with thin and 
normal endometrium in vitro. In this cross-sectional study, endometrial biopsies 
were obtained from 14 healthy fertile women and 14 women with RIF. Endometrial 
cells from 4 different group (RIF and control with endometrial thickness < 7 mm 
and > 7 mm) were cultured with three different concentration of PRP 3%, 5% and 
10%. Expression of leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), COX2 and P53, estrogen 
receptors (ERs) and progesterone receptors (PRs) genes were measured using 
quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Protein expression 
levels of LIF, COX2 and p53 were evaluated using Western Blot method (WB). There 
was a significant decrease in the expression of PROA/b, ER2/b, LIF/b, COX2/b and 
P53/b genes in the RIF groups compared to the controls. Treatment with 5% and 
10% PRP caused a significant increase in the gene expression of PRs, ERs, LIF/b, 
COX2/b and p53 in the RIF groups. Moreover, protein expression of COX2/b, LIF/b 
and p53/b increased following treatment with PRP in the RIF group with the 
endometrium thickness < 7 mm. PRP enhances expression of LIF, COX2, p53, ERs and 
PRs in the RIF patients with thin endometrium which may improve endometrium 
receptivity.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive 
Investigation.

DOI: 10.1007/s43032-024-01744-z
PMID: 39496922

PMID: 39496918
Abstract: 1. Inflammation. 2024 Nov 4. doi: 10.1007/s10753-024-02164-6. Online ahead of 
print.

Multiple Machine Learning Identifies Key Gene PHLDA1 Suppressing NAFLD 
Progression.

Yang Z(#)(1), Chen Z(#)(2)(3), Wang J(#)(4), Li Y(5), Zhang H(6), Xiang Y(2), 
Zhang Y(2), Shao Z(2), Wu P(2), Lu D(2), Lin H(2), Tong Z(7), Liu J(2), Dong 
Q(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The Fifth School of Clinical Medicine of 
Zhejiang, Huzhou Central Hospital, Chinese Medical University, No.1558, Sanhuan 
North Road, Wuxing District, Huzhou, Zhejiang Province, 313000, People's 
Republic of China. 2780779862@qq.com.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, The Fifth School of Clinical Medicine of 
Zhejiang, Huzhou Central Hospital, Chinese Medical University, No.1558, Sanhuan 
North Road, Wuxing District, Huzhou, Zhejiang Province, 313000, People's 
Republic of China.
(3)Huzhou Central Hospital, Affiliated Central Hospital Huzhou University, 
Huzhou, China.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Guangdong Key Laboratory of 
Genome Instability and Human Disease Prevention, Shenzhen University School of 
Medicine, Shenzhen, China.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, 
China.
(6)Department of Gastroenterology, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, 
China.
(7)Huzhou Key Laboratory of Precision Medicine Research and Translation for 
Infectious Diseases, Huzhou Central Hospital, Affiliated Central Hospital Huzhou 
University, Huzhou, 313000, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) poses a serious global health threat, 
with its progression mechanisms not yet fully understood. While several 
molecular markers for NAFLD have been developed in recent years, a lack of 
robust evidence hampers their clinical application. Therefore, identifying novel 
and potent biomarkers would directly aid in the prediction, prevention, and 
personalized treatment of NAFLD. We downloaded NAFLD-related datasets from the 
Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Differential expression analysis and functional 
analysis were initially conducted. Subsequently, Weighted Gene Co-expression 
Network Analysis (WGCNA) and multiple machine learning strategies were employed 
to screen and identify key genes, and the diagnostic value was assessed using 
Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis. We then explored the 
relationship between genes and immune cells using transcriptome data and 
single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data. Finally, we validated our findings 
in cell and mouse NAFLD models. We obtained 23 overlapping differentially 
expressed genes (DEGs) across three NAFLD datasets. Enrichment analysis revealed 
that DEGs were associated with Apoptosis, Parathyroid hormone synthesis, 
secretion and action, Colorectal cancer, p53 signaling pathway, and Biosynthesis 
of unsaturated fatty acids. After employing machine learning strategies, we 
identified one gene, pleckstrin homology like domain family A member 1 (PHLDA1), 
downregulated in NAFLD and showing high diagnostic accuracy. CIBERSORT analysis 
revealed significant associations of PHLDA1 with various immune cells. 
Single-cell data analysis demonstrated downregulation of PHLDA1 in NAFLD, with 
PHLDA1 exhibiting a significant negative correlation with macrophages. 
Furthermore, we found PHLDA1 to be downregulated in an in vitro hepatic 
steatosis cell model, and overexpression of PHLDA1 significantly reduced lipid 
accumulation, as well as the expression of key molecules involved in hepatic 
lipogenesis and fatty acid uptake, such as FASN, SCD-1, and CD36. Additionally, 
gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) pathway enrichment analysis suggested that 
PHLDA1 may influence NAFLD progression through pathways such as Cytokine 
Cytokine Receptor Interaction, Ecm Receptor Interaction, Parkinson's Disease, 
and Ribosome pathways. Our conclusions were further validated in a mouse model 
of NAFLD. Our study reveals that PHLDA1 inhibits the progression of NAFLD, as 
overexpression of PHLDA1 significantly reduces lipid accumulation in cells and 
markedly decreases the expression of key molecules involved in liver lipogenesis 
and fatty acid uptake. Therefore, PHLDA1 may emerge as a novel potential target 
for future prediction, diagnosis, and targeted prevention of NAFLD.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10753-024-02164-6
PMID: 39496918

PMID: 39496635
Abstract: 1. NPJ Syst Biol Appl. 2024 Nov 4;10(1):127. doi: 10.1038/s41540-024-00455-0.

Multi-bioinformatics revealed potential biomarkers and repurposed drugs for 
gastric adenocarcinoma-related gastric intestinal metaplasia.

Andersen GT(1)(2)(3), Ianevski A(1), Resell M(1), Pojskic N(4), Rabben HL(1), 
Geithus S(1), Kodama Y(1), Hiroyuki T(5), Kainov D(1), Grønbech JE(1)(2), 
Hayakawa Y(6), Wang TC(7), Zhao CM(1), Chen D(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, Norwegian University of 
Science and Technology (NTNU), Trondheim, Norway.
(2)Department of Surgery, St. Olav's Hospital, Trondheim, Norway.
(3)Department of Surgery, Namsos Hospital, Namsos, Norway.
(4)Laboratory for Bioinformatics and Biostatistics, University of Sarajevo - 
Institute for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, Sarajevo, Bosnia and 
Herzegovina.
(5)Department of Tumor Pathology, Gifu University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Gifu, Japan.
(6)Department of Gastroenterology, Tokyo University Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(7)Department of Digestive and Liver Diseases and Herbert Iring Comprehensive 
Cancer Center, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, USA.
(8)Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, Norwegian University of 
Science and Technology (NTNU), Trondheim, Norway. duan.chen@ntnu.no.

Biomarkers associated with the progression from gastric intestinal metaplasia 
(GIM) to gastric adenocarcinoma (GA), i.e., GA-related GIM, could provide 
valuable insights into identifying patients with increased risk for GA. The aim 
of this study was to utilize multi-bioinformatics to reveal potential biomarkers 
for the GA-related GIM and predict potential drug repurposing for GA prevention 
in patients. The multi-bioinformatics included gene expression matrix (GEM) by 
microarray gene expression (MGE), ScType (a fully automated and ultra-fast 
cell-type identification based solely on a given scRNA-seq data), Ingenuity 
Pathway Analysis, PageRank centrality, GO and MSigDB enrichments, Cytoscape, 
Human Protein Atlas and molecular docking analysis in combination with 
immunohistochemistry. To identify GA-related GIM, paired surgical biopsies were 
collected from 16 GIM-GA patients who underwent gastrectomy, yielding 64 samples 
(4 biopsies per stomach x 16 patients) for MGE. Co-analysis was performed by 
including scRNAseq and immunohistochemistry datasets of endoscopic biopsies of 
37 patients. The results of the present study showed potential biomarkers for 
GA-related GIM, including GEM of individual patients, individual genes (such as 
RBP2 and CD44), signaling pathways, network of molecules, and network of 
signaling pathways with key topological nodes. Accordingly, potential treatment 
targets with repurposed drugs were identified including epidermal growth factor 
receptor, proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase Src, paxillin, transcription 
factor Jun, breast cancer type 1 susceptibility protein, cellular tumor antigen 
p53, mouse double minute 2, and CD44.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41540-024-00455-0
PMCID: PMC11535201
PMID: 39496635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Parts of the results were included in an MSc 
thesis by S. Geithus 
(https://ntnuopen.ntnu.no/ntnu-xmlui/handle/11250/2993496?show=full) and a PhD 
thesis by G.T. Andersen (Doctoral theses at NTNU, 2023:360). Otherwise, the 
authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.

PMID: 39496506
Abstract: 1. Phytochem Anal. 2024 Nov 4. doi: 10.1002/pca.3464. Online ahead of print.

Study on the Mechanism of Raspberry (Rubi fructus) in Treating Type 2 Diabetes 
Based on UPLC-Q-Exactive Orbitrap MS, Network Pharmacology, and Experimental 
Validation.

Wang X(1)(2), Zhang X(1), Liao Q(1), Rui X(1), Wang R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, AnHui College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Wuhu, 
China.
(2)Wuhu Modern Technology Research and Development Center of Chinese Herbal 
Medicine and Functional Food, Wuhu, China.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Dali University, Dali, China.

AIM: The aim of this study is to analyze the chemical composition of raspberry 
using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) technology, predict the 
potential effects of raspberry in treating type 2 diabetes through network 
pharmacology, and conduct preliminary validation through in vitro experiments.
METHODS: A Waters CORTECS C18 column (3.0 mm × 100 mm, 2.7 μm) was used; mobile 
phase A consisted of 0.1% formic acid in water and mobile phase B consisted of 
0.1% formic acid in acetonitrile. Gradient elution was performed with full-scan 
mode in both positive and negative ion modes, covering a mass range of m/z 
100-1500. The chemical components of raspberry were analyzed and identified 
based on secondary spectra from databases and relevant literature. The disease 
targets related to type 2 diabetes were searched, and protein-protein 
interaction network analysis as well as gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto 
Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis were 
conducted on the intersecting targets of the active components of raspberry and 
the disease. HepG2 cells were used for experimental validation, with high 
glucose-induced insulin resistance models established. The CCK-8 method was 
employed to assess the effects of raspberry on cell proliferation, while Western 
blotting was used to measure the expression of proteins related to the AGE/RAGE 
signaling pathway.
RESULTS: A total of 47 components were identified, including 10 organic acids, 
15 flavonoids, 12 phenols, 2 alkaloids, 4 terpenoids, 1 miscellaneous compound, 
1 stilbene, 1 steroid and its derivatives, and 1 diterpenoid. Through database 
screening, seven active components were identified: kaempferol, epicatechin, 
ellagic acid, crocetin, stigmasterol, fisetin, and isorhamnetin. KEGG and GO 
results indicated that the therapeutic effects of raspberry on type 2 diabetes 
may be related to the advanced glycation end product (AGE)- receptor for 
advanced glycation end product (RAGE) signaling pathway. Establishment of an 
insulin resistance model in HepG2 cells demonstrated that, compared to the 
control group, the raspberry treatment group upregulated p53 protein expression 
while downregulating the expression of RAGE, Akt1, and Caspase-3 proteins.
CONCLUSION: This study preliminarily elucidates that the therapeutic effects of 
raspberry in treating type 2 diabetes may be mediated through the inhibition of 
the AGE-RAGE signaling pathway, providing important references for the study of 
the pharmacological basis and clinical application of raspberry.

© 2024 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pca.3464
PMID: 39496506

PMID: 39493880
Abstract: 1. iScience. 2024 Sep 30;27(11):111073. doi: 10.1016/j.isci.2024.111073. 
eCollection 2024 Nov 15.

Genetic and clinical characteristics of genetic tumor syndromes in the central 
nervous system cancers: Implications for clinical practice.

Wang C(1)(2), Chen J(3), Wang Y(1)(2), Luo N(4), Han T(4), Yin X(4), Song Y(4), 
Chen D(4)(5)(6), Gong J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Qilu Hospital, Cheeloo College of Medicine and 
Institute of Brain and Brain-Inspired Science, Shandong University, Jinan, 
Shandong 250012, China.
(2)Shandong Key Laboratory of Brain Health and Function Remodeling, Jinan, 
Shandong 250012, China.
(3)Department of Oncology, The Affiliated Yantai Yuhuangding Hospital of Qingdao 
University, Yantai, Shandong 264000, China.
(4)The Medical Department, Jiangsu Simcere Diagnostics Co., Ltd., Nanjing 
Simcere Medical Laboratory Science Co., Ltd., The State Key Laboratory of 
Neurology and Oncology Drug Development, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210000, China.
(5)Cancer Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Jinzhou Medical University, 
Jinzhou, Liaoning 121001, China.
(6)Center of Translational Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of Jinzhou 
Medical University, Jinzhou, Liaoning 121001, China.

Recognizing individuals with Genetic tumor syndromes (GTS) in the primary 
central nervous system (CNS) tumors is crucial for optimizing proper genetic 
counseling and improving therapeutics and clinical care. We retrospectively 
analyzed the GTS in a Chinese CNS tumor cohort and examined the molecular 
characteristics and their clinical significance for diagnostic and therapeutic 
purposes. Our study identified 34 categories of GTS in 258 patients with CNS 
tumors. The gene with the highest germline pathogenic or likely pathogenic 
mutation frequency was TP53, followed by MSH2, NF1, and BRCA2. The top five GTS 
in CNS tumors showed high genetic heterogeneity GTS analysis reclassifies CNS 
tumors as "NEC." 53.88% of patients diagnosed with GTS harbor potential 
precision oncology therapy target mutations. The results of our study deepen our 
understanding of CNS tumors, provide a reference direction for the future design 
of clinical trials, and further expect to improve disease entire process 
management in CNS tumors.

© 2024 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.isci.2024.111073
PMCID: PMC11530818
PMID: 39493880

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

PMID: 39493830
Abstract: 1. Saudi Pharm J. 2024 Nov;32(11):102187. doi: 10.1016/j.jsps.2024.102187. Epub 
2024 Oct 13.

Salubrious effects of proanthocyanidins on behavioral phenotypes and DNA repair 
deficiency in the BTBR mouse model of autism.

Alhusain AF(1), Mahmoud MA(1), Alhamami HN(1), Ebrahim Alobid S(1), Ansari 
MA(1), Ahmad SF(1), Nadeem A(1), Bakheet SA(1), Harisa GI(2), Attia SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Pharmacy, King Saud 
University, 11451 Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmacy, King Saud University, 11451 
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder distinguished by impaired social 
interaction and repetitive behaviors. Global estimates indicate that autism 
affects approximately 1.6% of children, with the condition progressively 
becoming more prevalent over time. Despite noteworthy progress in autism 
research, the condition remains untreatable. This serves as a driving force for 
scientists to explore new approaches to disease management. Autism is linked to 
elevated levels of oxidative stress and disturbances in the DNA repair 
mechanism, which may potentially play a role in its comorbidities development. 
The current investigation aimed to evaluate the beneficial effect of the 
naturally occurring flavonoid proanthocyanidins on the behavioral 
characteristics and repair efficacy of autistic BTBR mice. Moreover, the 
mechanisms responsible for these effects were clarified. The present findings 
indicate that repeated administration of proanthocyanidins effectively reduces 
altered behavior in BTBR animals without altering motor function. 
Proanthocyanidins decreased oxidative DNA strand breaks and accelerated the rate 
of DNA repair in autistic animals, as evaluated by the modified comet test. In 
addition, proanthocyanidins reduced the elevated oxidative stress and recovered 
the disrupted DNA repair mechanism in the autistic animals by decreasing the 
expressions of Gadd45a and Parp1 levels and enhancing the expressions of Ogg1, 
P53, and Xrcc1 genes. This indicates that proanthocyanidins have significant 
potential as a new therapeutic strategy for alleviating autistic features.

© 2024 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsps.2024.102187
PMCID: PMC11530837
PMID: 39493830

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.

PMID: 39507413
Abstract: 1. JTO Clin Res Rep. 2024 Aug 29;5(12):100714. doi: 10.1016/j.jtocrr.2024.100714.
 eCollection 2024 Dec.

Rearranged During Transfection Rearrangement Detection by Fluorescence In Situ 
Hybridization Compared With Other Techniques in NSCLC.

Mc Leer A(1)(2)(3), Mondet J(1)(2)(3), Magnat N(2), Mersch M(1)(2), Giovannini 
D(2)(4), Emprou C(2)(3), Toffart AC(1)(3)(5), Sturm N(1)(2)(4), Lantuéjoul 
S(1)(6), Benito D(7).

Author information:
(1)Université Grenoble Alpes, Grenoble, France.
(2)Service d'Anatomie et Cytologie Pathologiques, Pôle de Biologie et 
Pathologie, CHU Grenoble Alpes, Grenoble, France.
(3)Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Université Grenoble Alpes, Grenoble, 
France.
(4)TIMC-IMAG, Université Grenoble-Alpes, La Tronche, France.
(5)Clinique Hospitalo-Universitaire de Pneumologie Physiologie, Pôle Thorax et 
Vaisseaux, CHU Grenoble Alpes, Grenoble, France.
(6)Cancer Research Center Lyon, Centre Léon Bérard, Lyon, France.
(7)Medical Affairs - Oncology, Eli Lilly (Suisse) S.A., Dubai, United Arab 
Emirates.

INTRODUCTION: RET rearrangements occur in 1% to 2% NSCLCs. Since no clinically 
validated RET antibody is currently available, fluorescence in situ 
hybridization (FISH) is often used as a screening tool to identify patients 
likely to benefit from RET-targeted therapy. In this study, we performed a 
comprehensive review of publications in which RET-rearrangement testing was 
performed by FISH and compared the methods and results with our data.
METHODS: The findings of an electronic search for publications using RET-FISH in 
lung cancer were compared with the results obtained at the Grenoble University 
Hospital where 784 EGFR -, KRAS -, ALK-, and ROS1-negative NSCLCs were tested by 
RET break-apart FISH and confirmed by RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq).
RESULTS: Out of the 85 publications using RET-FISH analysis, 52 pertained to 
patients with lung cancer. The most often used positivity threshold was 15%. Six 
publications compared RET-FISH with at least one other molecular technique on at 
least eight samples, and the concordance was variable, from 5.9% to 66.7% for 
FISH-positive cases. Regarding our data, out of the 784 analyzed samples, 32 
(4%) were positive by RET-FISH. The concordance between RET-FISH and RNA-seq in 
RET-FISH positive samples was 69%.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, both existing literature and our data suggest that 
RET-FISH testing can be used for rapid screening of RET rearrangements in NSCLC. 
Nevertheless, using an orthogonal technique such as RNA-seq to confirm 
RET-FISH-positive cases is essential for ensuring that only patients likely to 
benefit from RET-target therapy receive the treatment.

© 2024 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtocrr.2024.100714
PMCID: PMC11539407
PMID: 39507413

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Mc Leer has declared consulting fees from 
10.13039/100015756Janssen-Cilag, Eli Lilly, Takeda, JFR Access, Pfizer, payment 
for presentations from Amgen, AstraZeneca, Cancerodigest, Edimark, Janssen-Cilag 
and support for attending meetings from Amgen, AstraZeneca, Janssen-Cilag, 
Pfizer. Dr. Toffart has declared consulting fees from 
10.13039/100004325AstraZeneca, 10.13039/100002491Bristol-Myers Squibb, 
10.13039/100002429Amgen, 10.13039/501100014382Ipsen, Janssen, 
10.13039/100009947Merck Sharp & Dohme, 10.13039/100004319Pfizer, 
10.13039/100004337Roche, Sanofi, Takeda, payment for presentations from 
AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Amgen, Ipsen, Janssen, Merck Sharp & Dohme, 
Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi, Takeda, payment for expert testimony from AstraZeneca, 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Amgen, Ipsen, Janssen, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Pfizer, Roche, 
Sanofi, Takeda and support for attending meetings from AstraZeneca, Pfizer, 
Roche, Takeda. Dr. Benito is a full-time employee at Eli Lilly Co. The remaining 
authors declare no conflict of interest.

PMID: 39507018
Abstract: 1. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2024 Oct 31;13(10):2660-2672. doi:
10.21037/tlcr-24-339.  Epub 2024 Oct 28.

SWItch/Sucrose Nonfermentable complex-deficient pulmonary neoplasms: 
clinicopathologic characteristics and outcomes to radiotherapy and 
immunotherapy.

Gu Y(#)(1)(2)(3)(4), Lai S(#)(1)(2)(3)(4), Yang J(#)(5), Zhang J(1)(2)(3)(4), 
Fan X(1)(2)(3)(4), Zheng Q(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Shanghai Cancer Center, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Oncology, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.
(3)Shanghai Clinical Research Center for Radiation Oncology, Shanghai, China.
(4)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Radiation Oncology, Shanghai, China.
(5)Xiaogan Hospital Affiliated to Wuhan University of Science and Technology, 
Xiaogan, China.
(6)Department of Pathology, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, Shanghai, 
China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The SWItch/Sucrose Nonfermentable (SWI/SNF) complex, a multi-subunit 
chromatin remodeler, is linked to aggressive tumors when deficient. Accurate 
identification of SWI/SNF expression status is crucial for tailoring targeted 
therapies. Previous studies on the efficacy of immunotherapy for 
SWI/SNF-deficient (SWI/SNF-d) pulmonary tumors primarily focus on non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC), with limited data on other modalities like radiotherapy. 
This study aims to analyze the clinicopathological characteristics and 
prognostic factors of SWI/SNF-d pulmonary neoplasms, including NSCLC and 
undifferentiated tumors, and to evaluate the effectiveness of radiotherapy and 
immunotherapy, providing a foundation for improved treatment strategies and 
prognostic assessments.
METHODS: Patient data on SWI/SNF-d pulmonary neoplasms were collected from Fudan 
University Shanghai Cancer Center, assessing ARID1A, SMARCA2, SMARCA4, and 
SMARCB1 subunit expression via immunohistochemistry, with retrospective analysis 
of survival and treatment results.
RESULTS: The study analyzed 101 SWI/SNF-d pulmonary neoplasms from 675 SWI/SNF-d 
cancer patients (January 2017 to August 2023), mostly male smokers, showing high 
malignancy. Clinicopathologic features were consistent across patients with 
various SWI/SNF subunit deficiencies. TP53 was the most common co-mutated gene 
(71%), followed by STK11, CDKN2A, KRAS, APC, and EGFR. Key prognostic factors 
for overall survival (OS) were distant metastasis, radiotherapy, and 
immunotherapy. Immunotherapy improved 3-year OS rates from 20.8% to 68.4% 
(P<0.001). KRAS-mutated patients on immunotherapy showed a lower 1-year survival 
rate (60.0% vs. 83.1%, P=0.08). Radiotherapy increased 3-year OS rates to 61.7% 
from 30.7% (P=0.012). Of 38 patients treated with immunotherapy, 16 benefited 
from radiotherapy [median OS: 31.4 months vs. not estimable (NE), P=0.045], with 
an average 17.2 days between radiotherapy and immunotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: SWI/SNF-d pulmonary neoplasms, whether with multiple or single 
subunit losses, exhibit similar clinicopathological characteristics. 
Radiotherapy and immunotherapy are effective treatments for these patients, and 
the combination of radiotherapy with immunotherapy may offer synergistic 
effects.

2024 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/tlcr-24-339
PMCID: PMC11535837
PMID: 39507018

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
https://tlcr.amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/tlcr-24-339/coif). The authors 
have no conflicts of interest to declare.

PMID: 39506937
Abstract: 1. Heliyon. 2024 Oct 1;10(20):e38815. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e38815. 
eCollection 2024 Oct 30.

Integrative genomic analysis of RNA-modification-single nucleotide polymorphisms 
associated with kidney function.

Liu X(1), Zhu S(1), Liu X(1), Luo X(1), Chen C(1), Jiang L(1), Wu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephropathy, The First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical 
University, Hefei, Anhui, 230022, China.

INTRODUCTION: Increasing evidence suggests that RNA modification plays a 
significant role in the kidney and may be an ideal target for the treatment of 
kidney diseases. However, the specific mechanisms underlying RNA modifications 
in the pathogenesis of kidney disease remain unclear. Genome-wide association 
studies (GWAS) have identified numerous genetic loci involved in kidney function 
and RNA modifications. The identification and exploration of RNA 
modification-related single-nucleotide polymorphisms (RNAm-SNPs) associated with 
kidney function can help us to comprehensively understand the underlying 
mechanism of kidney disease and identify potential therapeutic targets.
METHODS: First, we examined the association of RNAm-SNPs with eGFR. Second, we 
performed expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) and protein quantitative 
trait locus (pQTL) analyses to explore the functions of the identified 
RNAm-SNPs. Finally, we evaluated the causality between RNAm-SNP-associated gene 
expression and circulating proteins and kidney function using a Mendelian 
randomization (MR) analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 252 RNA m-SNPs related to m6A, m1A, A-to-I, m5C, m7G, and 
m5U were identified. All these factors were significantly associated with the 
eGFR. A total of 119(47.22 %) RNAm-SNPs showed cis-eQTL effects in blood cells, 
whereas 72 (28.57 %) RNAm-SNPs showed cis-pQTL effects in plasma. 47 (18.65 %) 
RNAm-SNPs exhibited cis-eQTL and cis-pQTL effects. In addition, we demonstrated 
a causal association between RNAm-SNP-associated gene expression, circulating 
protein levels, and eGFR decline. Some of the identified genes and proteins have 
been reported to be associated with kidney diseases, such as CDK10 and SDCCAG8.
CONCLUSIONS: This study reveals an association between RNAm-SNPs and kidney 
function. These SNPs regulate gene expression and protein levels through RNA 
modifications, eventually leading to kidney dysfunction. Our study provides 
novel insights that connect the genetic risk of kidney disease to RNA 
modification and suggests potential therapeutic targets for the prevention and 
treatment of kidney disease.

© 2024 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e38815
PMCID: PMC11538735
PMID: 39506937

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following financial 
interests/personal relationships which may be considered as potential competing 
interests:Yonggui Wu reports financial support was provided by the 
10.13039/501100001809National Science Foundation of China. Ling Jiang reports 
financial support was provided by the 10.13039/501100001809National Science 
Foundation of China, 10.13039/501100010814Anhui Provincial Department of 
Education University research project, Anhui Province translational medicine 
project cultivation project. If there are other authors, they declare that they 
have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could 
have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

PMID: 39503628
Abstract: 1. Chem Biodivers. 2024 Nov 6:e202402423. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.202402423. Online
ahead  of print.

Network Pharmacology, Molecular Docking, and Molecular Dynamics Simulation 
Revealed the Molecular Targets and Potential Mechanism of Nauclea Latifolia in 
the Treatment of Breast Cancer.

Tepap Zemnou C(1).

Author information:
(1)Euro-Mediterranean University of Fes, School of Engineering BIOMEDTECH, 
Fes-Route Meknes, Morocco, 51, 30000, Fes, MOROCCO.

Breast cancer (BRCA) incidence is increasing, posing a significant public health 
challenge and necessitating effective treatment solutions. Nauclea latifolia (N. 
latifolia) has shown anticancer activity against multidrug-resistant BRCA cells, 
though its mechanism of action remains unclear. We used online databases Swiss 
target prediction and GeneCards to identify therapeutic targets for BRCA and 
active compounds in N. latifolia. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was 
constructed using the STRING database and Cytoscape. Gene Ontology (GO) and 
Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses were 
performed using the DAVID database. Molecular docking, gene expression and 
survival analyses of core targets were conducted using Autodock 4.0 and GEPIA2 
database. We identified 141 intersecting targets for BRCA and N. latifolia 
compounds, with key targets including ALB, AKT1, ESR1, STAT3, EGFR, SRC, PTGS2, 
GSK3B, MMP9, and PPAR1. These targets are involved in cell proliferation and 
death through pathways such as the PI3K-Akt signaling system, metabolic 
pathways, cancer pathways, and proteoglycans in cancer. Gene expression and 
survival analysis indicated these targets as potential markers for BRCA 
treatment prognosis. This study provides insights into the mechanism of action 
of N. latifolia against BRCA cells and give a basis to clinicians for future 
drug development.

© 2024 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.202402423
PMID: 39503628

PMID: 39503060
Abstract: 1. Drug Dev Res. 2024 Nov;85(7):e70010. doi: 10.1002/ddr.70010.

MLLT3 knockdown suppresses proliferation and cell mobility in human lung 
adenocarcinoma.

Shi W(1), Zhang T(1), Zhang L(1), Li W(1), Chen Z(2), Xu X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Tongji Hospital, School 
of Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Shanghai Lung Tumor Clinical Medical Center, Shanghai Chest Hospital, 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.

Lung cancer is emerging as one of the most frequently encountered malignancies 
around the world that carries high morbidity and mortality. Lung adenocarcinoma 
(LUAD) has become the most common subtype of lung cancer. MLLT3 or named AF9 was 
first characterized in acute myeloid leukemia and can downregulate the 
expression of several critical genes. The aim of this study was to explore the 
function of MLLT3 in the progression of LUAD and related molecular mechanisms. 
Immunohistochemistry was employed to assess MLLT3 expression in LUAD tissues, 
while quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western 
blot were utilized to detect MLLT3 expression levels in lung adenocarcinoma cell 
lines. These results revealed a significant overexpression of MLLT3 in LUAD cell 
lines and tissues. We further uncovered an association between MLLT3 expression 
profiles in LUAD tissues and metastasis, as well as TNM stage. Survival analysis 
showed that elevated MLLT3 correlated with a poorer survival rate. We also found 
that MLLT3 knockdown repressed LUAD cells invasion, migration, and proliferation 
in vitro, while inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis of LUAD cells. 
Moreover, knocking down MLLT3 inhibited tumor growth in vivo. Specific markers 
of apoptosis, cell cycle, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and 
MLLT3-induced signaling were examined by Western blot. We demonstrated that 
MLLT3 knockdown inhibited the activity of the EGFR-MAPK/ERK signaling pathway, 
and MLLT3 might be a novel diagnostic biomarker and therapeutic target in lung 
adenocarcinomas.

© 2024 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ddr.70010
PMID: 39503060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

PMID: 39502451
Abstract: 1. Diabetes Metab Syndr Obes. 2024 Nov 1;17:4105-4113. doi: 10.2147/DMSO.S489536.
 eCollection 2024.

Pathological Characteristics of Ferroptosis in Kidney Tissues in Type 2 Diabetic 
Patients with Diabetic Kidney Disease.

Li M(1)(2), Zhao S(2), Liu Y(1), Wang Q(2), Chen Y(2), Zhou Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, The Third Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang, Hebei, 050051, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Nephrology, The Third Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang, Hebei, 050051, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Diabetes kidney disease (DKD) is a common complication of diabetes 
and is currently considered the primary cause of end-stage renal disease. 
Ferroptosis has been found to participate in the development of DKD. However, no 
ferroptosis-related markers have been evaluated in human DKD samples. This study 
aimed to examine the ferroptosis-related pathological alterations in DKD 
samples.
METHODS: This study enrolled patients with DKD at the Third Hospital of Hebei 
Medical University between January 2018 and December 2022, of whom 30 were 
diagnosed with DKD and 10 with non-DKD (CON). Clinical data of patients were 
collected, and hematoxylin-eosin staining (H&E), PASM, and immunohistochemical 
staining were performed to evaluate pathological changes and the expression of 
ferroptosis-related proteins, including GPX4, ACSL4, Nrf2, TfR1, FTH, and FTL.
RESULTS: Compared with the CON group, patients with DKD exhibited significantly 
elevated serum creatinine levels and reduced eGFR (P < 0.05). Iron content and 
the expression of the ferroptosis-related protein ACSL4 were significantly 
increased, while the expression of Nrf2 was significantly decreased in the renal 
tissues of patients with DKD (P all < 0.05). There were no differences in the 
expression of GPX4, TfR1, FTH, or FTL between the two groups. Nrf2 and ACSL4 
expression were influential factors in the occurrence of DKD and both exhibited 
diagnostic value for DKD. Nrf2 was a protective factor (OR, < 1), whereas ACSL4 
was a risk factor (OR, > 1).
CONCLUSION: Ferroptosis-promoting gene profile was identified in DKD renal 
samples, indicating that ferroptosis may participate in the pathogenesis of DKD. 
The expression levels of Nrf2 and ASCL4 in the kidneys are related to the 
severity and progression of DKD.

© 2024 Li et al.

DOI: 10.2147/DMSO.S489536
PMCID: PMC11537185
PMID: 39502451

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest 
related to this study. The abstract of this paper was presented at the American 
Diabetes Association annual meeting as a poster presentation. The poster’s 
abstract was published in “Poster Abstracts” in 
Diabetes 2024;73(Supplement_1):1787-LB, DOI: doi.org/10.2337/db24-1787-LB.

PMID: 39500794
Abstract: 1. Biochem Genet. 2024 Nov 5. doi: 10.1007/s10528-024-10961-9. Online ahead of 
print.

Knockdown of Inhibin Beta A Reversed the Epithelial Growth Factor Receptor 
Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor Resistance and Enhanced the Therapeutic Effect of 
Radiotherapy in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer.

Liu H(1), Zhang H(2), Yin H(2), Wufuer G(2), Wang L(2), Abuduaini S(2), Chang 
X(2).

Author information:
(1)Tumor Radiotherapy Department, Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture State 
Friendship Hospital, Yining City, 835000, Xinjiang Province, China. 
drliuhongfei@hotmail.com.
(2)Tumor Radiotherapy Department, Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture State 
Friendship Hospital, Yining City, 835000, Xinjiang Province, China.

Lung cancer is a malignant tumor with the highest mortality rate worldwide. 
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) accounts for approximately half of all lung 
cancer cases. Inhibin beta A (INHBA) is a ligand of the transforming growth 
factor-beta superfamily. This study aimed to analyze the function of INHBA in 
NSCLC resistance cells. Gene Expression Omnibus and The Cancer Genome Atlas 
databases were used to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in NSCLC 
resistance cells and patients. DEGs were further analyzed by gene ontology and 
Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analysis. A colony formation 
assay was performed to determine cell growth. Cell migration and invasion were 
tested by Transwell assay. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related genes 
were analyzed using qRT-PCR and Western blot analysis. Using bioinformatics 
tools, INHBA was demonstrated to be overexpressed in NSCLC resistant cells and 
patients. Gefitinib treatment affected NSCLC resistant cells. Additionally, 
INHBA silencing or X-ray treatment suppressed the growth and metastasis of NSCLC 
resistant cells. Moreover, the combined application of INHBA silencing and X-ray 
treatment enhances the therapeutic effects. Moreover, EMT has been confirmed to 
occur in NSCLC resistant cell lines. Both INHBA silencing and X-ray treatment 
inhibited EMT development. This study demonstrated that INHBA silencing 
ameliorates EGFR-TKI resistance and enhances the therapeutic effect of 
radiotherapy in NSCLC.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10528-024-10961-9
PMID: 39500794

PMID: 39499411
Abstract: 1. Chin J Integr Med. 2024 Nov 5. doi: 10.1007/s11655-024-3767-8. Online ahead of
 print.

Mechanism of Asperosaponin VI Related to EGFR/MMP9/AKT/PI3K Pathway in Treatment 
of Rheumtoid Arthritis.

Luo JF(1), Yu Y(1), Liu JX(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medicine, Guizhou University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Guiyang, 550025, China.
(2)Sino-Pakistan Center on Traditional Chinese Medicine, China-Pakistan 
International Science and Technology Innovation Cooperation Base for Ethnic 
Medicine Development in Hunan Province, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hunan 
University of Medicine, Huaihua City, Hunan Province, 418000, China. 
liujianxin3385@126.com.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the mechanism of action of asperosaponin VI (AVI) in the 
treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and validate it in ex vivo experiments 
using network pharmacology and molecular docking methods.
METHODS: The predicted targets of AVI were obtained from PharmMaper, UniProt and 
SwissTarget Prediction platforms, the disease targets were collected from Online 
Mendelian Inheritance in Man, Therapeutic Target Database and GeneCards 
databases, the intersection targets of AVI and RA were obtained from Venny 
2.1.0, and the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was obtained from 
STRING database, which was analyzed by Cytoscape software and screened to obtain 
the core targets. Cytoscape software was used to analyze PPI network and screen 
the core targets. Based on the Database for Annotation, Visualization and 
Integrated Discovery database, Gene Ontology functional and Kyoto Encyclopedia 
of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analysis were performed, and Cytoscape 
software was used to construct the "Disease-Pathway-Target-Drug" network, which 
was finally verified by molecular docking and animal experiments.
RESULTS: Network pharmacological studies showed that AVI was able to modulate 
289 targets, with 102 targets for the potential treatment of RA, with the core 
pathway being the AKT/PI3K signaling pathway, and the core targets being the 
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9). 
Molecular docking results showed that AVI could produce strong binding with both 
of the 2 core targets. In vitro cellular experiments showed that AVI reduced 
nitric oxide, prostaglandin E2, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), 
interleukin-6 (IL-6), and IL-1 β levels (P<0.05) and inhibited cyclooxygenase-2, 
nitric oxide synthase, EGFR, MMP9, phosphorylated phosphoinositide 3-kinase 
(p-PI3K), and phosphorylated serine-threonine kinase (p-AKT) proteins (P<0.05). 
The results of in vivo studies showed that AVI improved RA score and foot 
swelling thickness and decreased TNF-α, IL-6, p-PI3K and p-AKT levels in RA rats 
(P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: AVI exerts anti-inflammatory and anti-RA effects which might be 
related to the EGFR/MMP9/AKT/PI3K pathway.

© 2024. The Chinese Journal of Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine Press 
and Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11655-024-3767-8
PMID: 39499411

PMID: 39499101
Abstract: 1. Integr Biol (Camb). 2024 Jan 23;16:zyae018. doi: 10.1093/intbio/zyae018.

Network dynamics investigation of omics-data-driven circadian-hypoxia crosstalk 
logical model in gallbladder cancer reveals key therapeutic target combinations.

Singh A(1), Dwivedi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioengineering and Biotechnology, Birla Institute of 
Technology, Mesra, Ranchi 835215, Jharkhand, India.

Recent findings in cancer research have pointed towards the bidirectional 
interaction between circadian and hypoxia pathways. However, little is known 
about their crosstalk mechanism. In this work, we aimed to investigate this 
crosstalk at a network level utilizing the omics information of gallbladder 
cancer. Differential gene expression and pathway enrichment analysis were used 
for selecting the crucial genes from both the pathways, followed by the 
construction of a logical crosstalk model using GINsim. Functional circuit 
identification and node perturbations were then performed. Significant node 
combinations were used to investigate the temporal behavior of the network 
through MaBoSS. Lastly, the model was validated using published in vitro 
experimentations. Four new positive circuits and a new axis viz. BMAL1/ HIF1αβ/ 
NANOG, responsible for stemness were identified. Through triple node 
perturbations viz.a. BMAL:CLOCK (KO or E1) + P53 (E1) + HIF1α (KO); b. P53 
(E1) + HIF1α (KO) + MYC (E1); and c. HIF1α (KO) + MYC (E1) + EGFR (KO), the 
model was able to inhibit cancer growth and maintain a homeostatic condition. 
This work provides an architecture for drug simulation analysis to entrainment 
circadian rhythm and in vitro experiments for chronotherapy-related studies. 
Insight Box. Circadian rhythm and hypoxia are the key dysregulated processes 
which fuels-up the cancer growth. In the present work we have developed a 
gallbladder cancer (GBC) specific Boolean model, utilizing the RNASeq data from 
GBC dataset and tissue specific interactions. This work adequately models the 
bidirectional nature of interactions previously illustrated in experimental 
papers showing the effect of hypoxia on dysregulation of circadian rhythm and 
the influence of this disruption on progression towards metastasis. Through the 
dynamical study of the model and its response to different perturbations, we 
report novel triple node combinations that can be targeted to efficiently reduce 
GBC growth. This network can be used as a generalized framework to investigate 
different crosstalk pathways linked with cancer progression.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/intbio/zyae018
PMID: 39499101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

PMID: 39497720
Abstract: 1. Front Oncol. 2024 Oct 21;14:1470827. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1470827.
eCollection  2024.

The potential role of next-generation sequencing in identifying MET 
amplification and disclosing resistance mechanisms in NSCLC patients with 
osimertinib resistance.

Xiao X(1)(2), Xu R(1)(2), Lu J(3), Xin B(2), Wang C(2), Zhu K(2), Zhang H(4), 
Chen X(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Physics, Changchun University of Science and Technology, Changchun, 
China.
(2)Research & Development Department, Shanghai Rightongene Biotechnology Co., 
Ltd., Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Shanghai Chest 
Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(4)School of Life Science and Technology, Changchun University of Science and 
Technology, Changchun, China.

PURPOSES: Osimertinib, one of the third-generation EGFR-tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors (TKIs) designed to target EGFR T790M mutation, significantly improves 
the prognosis of lung cancer. However, drug resistance still happens and MET 
amplification is responsible for one of the main causes. Fluorescence in situ 
hybridization (FISH) is the gold standard for MET amplification detection, but 
fundamentally limited by observer subjectivity. Herein, we assessed the value of 
next-generation sequencing (NGS) method in MET amplification detection in 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), as well as revealed the mutation profiling 
of NSCLC patients with osimertinib resistance to provide some valuable clues to 
the mechanisms of resistance.
METHODS: A total of 317 cancer tissue samples from 317 NSCLC patients at time of 
progression following osimertinib were submitted to NGS and only 96 tissues were 
tested by FISH simultaneously. With FISH results as gold standard, enumeration 
algorithm was applied to establish the optimal model for identifying MET 
amplification using gene copy number (GCN) data.
RESULTS: The optimal model for identifying MET amplification was constructed 
based on the GCN of MET, BRAF, CDK6 and CYP3A4, which achieved a 74.0% overall 
agreement with FISH and performed well in identifying MET amplification except 
polysomy with a sensitivity of 85.7% and a specificity of 93.9%. The 
inconsistency between NGS and FISH occurred mainly in polysomy subtype, while 
MET GCN ≥ 5 could be reliably recognized by NGS. Moreover, the most frequently 
mutated genes in NSCLC patients with osimertinib resistance were EGFR (59.94%), 
followed by TP53 (43.85%), NRG1 (9.46%), PIK3CA (6.31%), and ATM (5.36%). The 
known resistance mechanisms, including MET amplification, EGFR (C797S, L718Q/R), 
TP53, CDK4, CDK6, CDKN2A, BRAF, KRAS, NRAS and PIK3CA mutations were also 
disclosed in our cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: NGS assay can achieve a high concordance with FISH in MET 
amplification detection and has advantages in portraying various genetic 
alterations, which is of worthy in clinical promotion.

Copyright © 2024 Xiao, Xu, Lu, Xin, Wang, Zhu, Zhang and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1470827
PMCID: PMC11532092
PMID: 39497720

Conflict of interest statement: Author XX, RX, BX, CW, and KZ were employed by 
the company Shanghai Rightongene Biotechnology Co., Ltd. The remaining authors 
declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or 
financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest.

PMID: 39497713
Abstract: 1. Front Oncol. 2024 Oct 21;14:1435537. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1435537.
eCollection  2024.

Comprehensive liquid biopsy analysis for monitoring NSCLC patients under 
second-line osimertinib treatment.

Ntzifa A(1), Marras T(1), Kallergi G(2), Kotsakis A(3), Georgoulias V(4), 
Lianidou E(1).

Author information:
(1)Analysis of Circulating Tumor Cells Lab, Lab of Analytical Chemistry, 
Department of Chemistry, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, 
Greece.
(2)Laboratory of Biochemistry/Metastatic Signaling, Section of Genetics, Cell 
Biology and Development, Department of Biology, University of Patras, Patras, 
Greece.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, General University Hospital of Larissa, 
Larissa, Greece.
(4)First Department of Medical Oncology, Metropolitan General Hospital of 
Athens, Cholargos, Greece.

BACKGROUND: The heterogeneous and complex genetic landscape of NSCLC impacts the 
clinical outcomes of patients who will eventually develop resistance to 
osimertinib. Liquid biopsy (LB) analysis as a minimally invasive approach is a 
key step to efficiently identify resistance mechanisms and adjust to proper 
subsequent treatments.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In the present study, we combined plasma-cfDNA and CTC 
analysis from 30 NSCLC patients in samples collected before treatment and at the 
progression of disease (PD). We detected molecular alterations at the DNA 
mutation (EGFR, PIK3CA, KRAS G12C, BRAF V600E), DNA methylation (RASSF1A, BRMS1, 
FOXA1, SLFN1, SHISA3, RARβ,, WIF-1, RASSF10 and APC), gene expression (CK-19, 
CK-18, CK-8, AXL, TWIST-1, PD-L1, PIM-1, Vimentin, ALDH-1, and B2M) and 
chromosomal level (HER2 and MET amplification) as possible resistance mechanisms 
and druggable targets. We also studied the expression of PD-L1 in single CTCs 
using immunofluorescence.
RESULTS: In some cases, T790M resistance EGFR mutation was detected at baseline 
in CTCs but not in the corresponding plasma cfDNA. PIK3CA mutations were 
detected only in plasma-cfDNA but not in corresponding CTCs. KRAS G12C and BRAF 
V600E mutations were not detected in the samples analyzed. MET amplification was 
detected in the CTCs of two patients before treatment whereas HER2 amplification 
was detected in the CTCs of three patients at baseline and in one patient at PD. 
DNA methylation analysis revealed low concordance between CTCs and cfDNA, 
indicating the complementary information obtained through parallel LB analysis. 
Results from gene expression analysis indicated high rates of vimentin-positive 
CTCs detected at all time points during osimertinib. Moreover, there was an 
increased number of NSCLC patients at PD harboring CTCs positive in PD-L1. AXL 
and PIM-1 expression detected in CTCs during treatment suggesting new possible 
therapeutic strategies.
DISCUSSION: Our results reveal that comprehensive liquid biopsy analysis can 
efficiently represent the heterogeneous molecular landscape and provide 
prominent information on subsequent treatments for NSCLC patients at PD since 
druggable molecular alterations were detected in CTCs.

Copyright © 2024 Ntzifa, Marras, Kallergi, Kotsakis, Georgoulias and Lianidou.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1435537
PMCID: PMC11532185
PMID: 39497713

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.

PMID: 39494203
Abstract: 1. J Inflamm Res. 2024 Oct 29;17:7893-7912. doi: 10.2147/JIR.S483652. eCollection
 2024.

The Mechanism by Which Cyperus rotundus Ameliorates Osteoarthritis: A Work Based 
on Network Pharmacology.

Du MD(#)(1)(2), He KY(#)(3), Fan SQ(3), Li JY(3), Liu JF(3), Lei ZQ(3), Qin 
G(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Osteoarthrosis, Xing-An Jieshou Orthopedics Hospital, Guilin, 
People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Trauma and Hand Surgery, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Guangxi Medical University, Nanning, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Osteoarthrosis, The First Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi 
Traditional Chinese Medical University, Nanning, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Cyperus rotundus (CR) is widely used in traditional Chinese medicine 
to prevent and treat a variety of diseases. However, its functions and mechanism 
of action in osteoarthritis (OA) has not been elucidated. Here, a comprehensive 
strategy combining network pharmacology, molecular docking, molecular dynamics 
simulation and in vitro experiments was used to address this issue.
METHODS: The bioactive ingredients of CR were screened in TCMSP database, and 
the potential targets of these ingredients were obtained through Swiss Target 
Prediction database. Genes in OA pathogenesis were collected through GeneCards, 
OMIM and DisGeNET databases. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis and Kyoto Encyclopedia 
of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis were performed using DAVID 
database. STRING database and Cytoscape 3.10 software were used to construct 
"component-target-pathway" network, and predict the core targets affected by CR. 
The binding affinity between bioactive components and the core targets was 
evaluated by molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation. The 
therapeutic activity of kaempferol on chondrocytes in inflammatory conditions 
was verified by in vitro experiments.
RESULTS: Fifteen CR bioactive ingredients were obtained, targeting 192 
OA-related genes. A series of biological processes, cell components, molecular 
functions and pathways were predicted to be modulated by CR components. The core 
targets of CR in OA treatment were AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1), 
interleukin 1 beta (IL1B), SRC proto-oncogene, non-receptor tyrosine kinase 
(SRC), BCL2 apoptosis regulator (BCL2), signal transducer and activator of 
transcription 3 (STAT3), epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), 
hypoxia-inducible factor 1 subunit alpha (HIF1A), matrix metallopeptidase 9 
(MMP9), estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) and PPARG orthologs from vertebrates (PPARG), 
and the main bioactive ingredients of CR showed good binding affinity with these 
targets. In addition, kaempferol, one of the CR bioactive components, weakens 
the effects of IL-1β on the viability, apoptosis and inflammation of 
chondrocytes.
CONCLUSION: Theoretically, CR has great potential to ameliorate the symptoms and 
progression of OA, via multiple components, multiple targets, and multiple 
downstream pathways.

© 2024 Du et al.

DOI: 10.2147/JIR.S483652
PMCID: PMC11531273
PMID: 39494203

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.

PMID: 39492939
Abstract: 1. Oncol Lett. 2024 Oct 17;29(1):8. doi: 10.3892/ol.2024.14754. eCollection 2025 
Jan.

SH3 domain‑binding glutamic acid‑rich protein‑like 3 is associated with 
hyperglycemia and a poor outcome in Epstein‑Barr virus‑negative gastric 
carcinoma.

Li H(1)(2)(3), Zheng L(1)(4), Zhang X(1)(2)(3), Yu X(1)(2)(3), Zhong G(5), Chen 
X(1)(2)(3), Chen X(1)(2)(3), Chen L(6).

Author information:
(1)Shengli Clinical Medical College of Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian 
350001, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Fuzhou University Affiliated Provincial Hospital, 
Fuzhou, Fujian 350001, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Pathology, Fujian Provincial Hospital, Fuzhou, Fujian 350001, 
P.R. China.
(4)Nursing Department, Fujian Provincial Hospital, Fuzhou, Fujian 35001, P.R. 
China.
(5)Department of Pathology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Traditional 
Chinese Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian 350003, P.R. China.
(6)Department of Pathology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical 
University, Fuzhou, Fujian 350005, P.R. China.

SH3 domain-binding glutamic acid-rich protein-like 3 (SH3BGRL3) is involved in 
several human cancers. However, its relationship with gastric cancer (GC) 
remains elusive. Multiple online bioinformatic tools were used to evaluate the 
messenger (m)RNA expression levels of SH3BGRL3 in GC using data from The Cancer 
Genome Atlas and Gene Expression Omnibus databases. Reverse 
transcription-quantitative PCR and tissue microarray-based immunohistochemistry 
were performed to assess SH3BGRL3 expression in relation to clinicopathological 
parameters and outcomes in patients with GC. Significant differentially 
expressed genes (DEGs) of SH3BGRL3 were enriched and visualized. Furthermore, 
associations between the expression of SH3BGRL3 and the infiltration of immune 
cells were explored. SH3BGRL3 exhibited aberrant expression in tumor tissues 
compared with adjacent normal tissues at the mRNA and protein expression levels, 
especially in Epstein-Barr virus-negative GC (EBVnGC). Higher SH3BGRL3 
expression was significantly associated with increasing tumor-node-metastasis 
staging, tumor budding, perineural invasion, EGFR expression, and a notably 
higher preoperative blood glucose concentration in clinical specimens. 
Multivariate analysis revealed that higher SH3BGRL3 expression was an 
independent adverse prognostic factor for the overall survival of patients with 
EBVnGC (hazard ratio, 1.666; P=0.018). Furthermore, the stratified analysis 
revealed that the SH3BGRL3 phenotype could help to refine prognosis in patients. 
The C-index of the nomogram was 0.740 when combining SH3BGRL3 with other 
clinicopathological parameters, which indicated a good model for clinical 
follow-up decisions. Gene functional enrichment analysis also revealed that the 
DEGs of SH3BGRL3 were mainly enriched in regulating ATP metabolism, ATP 
synthesis, oxidative phosphorylation and the electron transport chain in GC. 
Moreover, a higher SH3BGRL3 expression was significantly positively correlated 
with the infiltrating macrophages in GC. In conclusion, SH3BGRL3 is upregulated 
in GC, particularly in EBVnGC. Higher SH3BGRL3 expression is closely associated 
with hyperglycemia and poor outcomes in patients with EBVnGC, suggesting its 
potential as a biomarker and prognostic predictor.

Copyright: © 2024 Li et al.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2024.14754
PMCID: PMC11526421
PMID: 39492939

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.

PMID: 39492582
Abstract: 1. Zhongguo Fei Ai Za Zhi. 2024 Sep 20;27(9):674-684. doi: 
10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2024.101.24.

[Potential Value of Neoadjuvant Immunochemotherapy in Patients with Driver 
Gene-positive Non-small Cell Lung Cancer].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Wei Z(1), Zhou Y(2), Pu X(2), Yan X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Oncology, Peking University People's Hospital, Beijing 
100871, China.
(2)The Second Department of Thoracic Oncology, the Affiliated Cancer Hospital of 
Xiangya School of Medicine, Central South University/Hunan Cancer Hospital, 
Changsha, 400013, China.

BACKGROUND: The proportion of patients carrying driver gene mutations is notably 
high among individuals with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in China. 
However, the current neoadjuvant treatment strategies for these patients lack 
evident benefits. This study aims to investigate the efficacy and adverse 
reactions of neoadjuvant immunochemotherapy in patients with driver 
gene-positive NSCLC, thereby exploring its potential therapeutic value.
METHODS: A total of 50 patients from two centers were retrospectively collected 
to compare the efficacy and adverse reactions among driver gene-positive NSCLC 
patients after different treatments and further explore the response to 
neoadjuvant immunochemotherapy among different EGFR-sensitive subtypes.
RESULTS: A total of 50 patients from two centers were included in this study. 
Among the 40 patients from Peking University People's Hospital (PKUPH), 21 
received neoadjuvant immunotherapy, with 57.1% showing partial response on 
imaging. The major pathological response (MPR) rate after neoadjuvant 
immunochemotherapy was 38.1%, and pathological complete response (pCR) was only 
observed in this group. No significant differences were noted in adverse events 
or their impact on surgical difficulty among different treatments. Additionally, 
10 patients from Hunan Cancer Hospital (HNCA) were included to analyze the 
differences in efficiency among EGFR-sensitive subtypes under various 
neoadjuvant strategies. No significant radiological response differences were 
observed between neoadjuvant immunotherapy and targeted therapy. However, 
patients with the L858R mutation exhibited MPR and pCR only after receiving 
immunotherapy, surpassing targeted therapy outcomes, while no significant 
differences were found among 19del patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Under the premise of not exacerbating adverse effects, neoadjuvant 
immunochemotherapy achieved superior rates of MPR and pCR, with long-term 
survival comparable to targeted therapy.

Publisher: 【中文题目：新辅助免疫联合化疗在驱动基因阳性非小细胞肺癌患者中的潜在应用价值】 【中文摘要：背景与目的 
我国非小细胞肺癌（non-small cell lung cancer, 
NSCLC）患者中携带驱动基因突变的比例很高，而这部分患者当前的新辅助治疗方案缺乏明显获益。本研究通过分析新辅助免疫联合化疗在驱动基因阳性NSCLC患者中的疗效及不良反应，探索其潜在应用价值。方法 
本研究为双中心回顾性研究，首先纳入来自北京大学人民医院（Peking University People’s Hospital, 
PKUPH）的在新辅助治疗后手术的驱动基因阳性NSCLC患者，分为单纯化疗组、免疫治疗组以及靶向治疗组三组，比较其疗效及不良反应；其后补充了来自湖南省肿瘤医院（Hunan 
Cancer Hospital, HNCA）的接受新辅助免疫联合化疗的表皮生长因子受体（epidermal growth factor receptor, 
EGFR）敏感突变患者来进一步探究EGFR敏感亚型之间对新辅助免疫联合化疗的反应。结果 
共纳入来自两个中心的患者50例。PKUPH的40例患者中采用免疫治疗的有21例，影像学疗效为部分缓解的占比57.1%。病理缓解方面，免疫治疗组的主要病理缓解（major 
pathological response, MPR）率为38.1%，且仅有免疫治疗组出现了达到完全病理缓解（pathological complete 
response, 
pCR）的患者。不同治疗方式之间的不良反应发生率及对手术难度的影响未见显著差异。进一步纳入来自HNCA的10例患者，针对不同新辅助治疗方式下不同EGFR敏感亚型的疗效差异进行进一步分析。新辅助免疫联合化疗与新辅助靶向治疗之间未见显著的影像学缓解差异。而在病理缓解方面，L858R患者仅在接受免疫治疗后出现了MPR、pCR患者，优于靶向治疗患者；19del患者中尚未观察到显著差异。结论 
在不增加不良反应的前提下，新辅助免疫联合化疗取得了更好的MPR、pCR率且远期生存不劣于靶向治疗。】 【中文关键词：肺肿瘤；新辅助免疫治疗；驱动基因阳性】.

DOI: 10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2024.101.24
PMCID: PMC11534581
PMID: 39492582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare that 
they have no competing interests.

PMID: 39492190
Abstract: 1. Sci Prog. 2024 Oct-Dec;107(4):368504241293008. doi: 10.1177/00368504241293008.

A predictive model of computed tomography and clinical features of EGFR gene 
mutation in lung adenocarcinoma.

Yao Y(1), Zhang N(1), Lu C(2), Liu L(1), Fu Y(3), Gui M(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Hainan Medical University, Haikou, China.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation, Haikou Hospital of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Haikou, China.
(3)Department of Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Hainan Medical 
University, Haikou, China.

Purpose: This study aims to develop a predictive model for epidermal growth 
factor receptor (EGFR) mutations in lung adenocarcinoma by integrating computed 
tomography (CT) imaging features with clinical characteristics. Methods: A 
retrospective analysis was conducted using electronic medical records from 194 
patients diagnosed with lung adenocarcinoma between January 2016 and December 
2020, with approval from the institutional review board. Features were selected 
using LASSO regression, and predictive models were built using logistic 
regression, support vector machine, and random forest methods. Individual models 
were created for clinical features, CT imaging features, and a combined model to 
predict EGFR mutations. Results: The training set revealed that alcohol 
consumption, intrapulmonary metastasis, and pleural effusion were statistically 
significant in distinguishing between wild-type and mutation groups (p < 0.05). 
In the testing set, hilar and mediastinal lymphadenopathy showed statistical 
significance (p < 0.05). The combined model outperformed the individual clinical 
and CT imaging feature models. In the testing set, the logistic regression model 
achieved the highest AUC of 0.827, with sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy 
of 0.714, 0.712, and 0.712, respectively. Nomogram analysis identified 
lobulation as an important feature, with a predicted probability of up to 0.9. 
The decision curve analysis showed that the CT imaging feature model provided a 
higher net benefit compared to both the clinical feature model and the combined 
model. Conclusion: In summary, while the combined model outperformed the 
individual feature models in the testing set, the CT imaging feature model 
demonstrated the greatest clinical net benefit. Lobulation was identified as an 
important predictor of EGFR mutations in lung adenocarcinoma.

DOI: 10.1177/00368504241293008
PMCID: PMC11536698
PMID: 39492190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.

PMID: 39489826
Abstract: 1. Sci Rep. 2024 Nov 3;14(1):26545. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-77971-w.

MFAP3L predicts tumor microenvironment status, molecular subtypes and clinical 
benefit in patients with bladder cancer.

Xie G(1), Qi T(2), Yao Y(2), Feng D(3), Zhou W(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Hunan Aerospace Hospital, Changsha, China.
(2)Xiangya School of Medicine, Central South University, Changsha, China.
(3)Department of Urology, The Third Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha, China. 2466295137@qq.com.
(4)Department of Urology, National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric 
Disorders, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha, China. 
zhouwm0223@163.com.
(5)National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Disorders, Xiangya Hospital, 
Changsha, China. zhouwm0223@163.com.

Bladder cancer (BLCA), ranking as the tenth most prevalent malignancy globally, 
imposes a substantial public health and socio-economic challenge. Despite 
ongoing efforts by urologists to identify novel molecular subtypes and treatment 
paradigms, the intrinsic heterogeneity of BLCA continues to obstruct the 
efficacy of current diagnostic and therapeutic evaluations, leaving a gap in the 
comprehensive management of BLCA. This necessitates an in-depth investigation 
into the BLCA tumor microenvironment (TME) to identify pivotal molecules like 
MFAP3L. Our research concentrated on MFAP3L, commencing with a pan-cancer 
analysis of its immune profile. We discovered that MFAP3L exhibits a significant 
negative correlation with numerous immune components and markers in BLCA, a 
trend not observed in other cancer types. Within the TCGA-BLCA cohort, patients 
were classified into High-MFAP3L and Low-MFAP3L groups according to their MFAP3L 
transcript levels. Our exploration into the BLCA TME delved into immune 
infiltration, molecular subtype patterns, and treatment preferences within these 
MFAP3L groups. High MFAP3L expression was linked to favorable prognoses, luminal 
subtypes, and low immune infiltration, inversely associated with various immune 
molecules and characteristics. Additionally, high MFAP3L expressors exhibited 
diminished immune checkpoint levels, suggesting enhanced immunotherapy tolerance 
and sensitivity to oncogenic pathway targeting. Conversely, low MFAP3L 
expression correlated with poor outcomes, basal subtypes, increased immune 
infiltration, and heightened gene mutation rates, alongside sensitivity to 
radiotherapy, EGFR-targeted treatments, and immunotherapy. Hence, MFAP3L emerges 
as a critical yet underexplored gene in BLCA, offering insights into immune 
status within the TME and aiding in molecular subtyping and therapeutic 
decision-making.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-77971-w
PMCID: PMC11532506
PMID: 39489826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

PMID: 39484404
Abstract: 1. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Oct 21:2024.10.17.618926. doi: 
10.1101/2024.10.17.618926.

Expression-Driven Genetic Dependency Reveals Targets for Precision Medicine.

Elmas A, Layden HM, Ellis JD, Bartlett LN, Zhao X, Kawabata-Iwakawa R, Obinata 
H, Hiebert SW, Huang KL.

Cancer cells are heterogeneous, each harboring distinct molecular aberrations 
and are dependent on different genes for their survival and proliferation. While 
successful targeted therapies have been developed based on driver DNA mutations, 
many patient tumors lack druggable mutations and have limited treatment options. 
Here, we hypothesize that new precision oncology targets may be identified 
through "expression-driven dependency", whereby cancer cells with high 
expression of a targeted gene are more vulnerable to the knockout of that gene. 
We introduce a Bayesian approach, BEACON, to identify such targets by jointly 
analyzing global transcriptomic and proteomic profiles with genetic dependency 
data of cancer cell lines across 17 tissue lineages. BEACON identifies known 
druggable genes, e.g., BCL2, ERBB2, EGFR, ESR1, MYC , while revealing new 
targets confirmed by both mRNA- and protein-expression driven dependency. 
Notably, the identified genes show an overall 3.8-fold enrichment for approved 
drug targets and enrich for druggable oncology targets by 7 to 10-fold. We 
experimentally validate that the depletion of GRHL2 , TP63 , and PAX5 
effectively reduce tumor cell growth and survival in their dependent cells. 
Overall, we present the catalog of express-driven dependency targets as a 
resource for identifying novel therapeutic targets in precision oncology.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.10.17.618926
PMCID: PMC11527036
PMID: 39484404

PMID: 39480746
Abstract: 1. ACS Appl Bio Mater. 2024 Oct 31. doi: 10.1021/acsabm.4c01176. Online ahead of 
print.

Diblock Copolymer Targeted Lipid Nanoparticles: Next-Generation Nucleic Acid 
Delivery System Produced by Confined Impinging Jet Mixers.

Kim B(1), Subraveti SN(1), Liu JX(1), Nayagam SK(1)(2), Merghoub S(1), Caggiano 
NJ(1), Amelemah DF(1), Jiang T(1), Bizmark N(1), Conway JM(1), Tsourkas A(3), 
Prud'homme RK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Princeton University, 
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, United States.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Columbia University, New York, New York 
10027, United States.
(3)Department of Bioengineering, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania 19104, United States.

Despite the recent advances and clinical demonstration of lipid nanoparticles 
(LNPs) for therapeutic and prophylactic applications, the extrahepatic delivery 
of nucleic acids remains a significant challenge in the field. This limitation 
arises from the rapid desorption of lipid-PEG in the bloodstream and clearance 
to the liver, which hinders extrahepatic delivery. In response, we explore the 
substitution of lipid-PEG with biodegradable block copolymers (BCPs), 
specifically poly(ε-caprolactone)-block-poly(ethylene glycol) (PCL-b-PEG). BCPs 
offer strong anchoring for large macromolecules, potentially enhancing 
cell-specific targeting. To develop and optimize BCP-stabilized LNPs (BCP-LNPs), 
we employed a Design of Experiment (DOE) approach. Through a systematic 
exploration, we identified optimal formulations for BCP-LNPs, achieving 
desirable physicochemical properties and encapsulation efficiency. Notably, 
BCP-LNPs exhibit surprising trends in transfection efficiency, with certain 
formulations showing up to a 40-fold increase in transfection in Hela cells, 
while maintaining minimal cytotoxicity. The lipid compositions that optimized 
PCL-b-PEG LNP transfection were different from the compositions that optimized 
PEG-lipid LNP transfection. Furthermore, our study confirms the versatility of 
BCP-LNPs in encapsulating and delivering both mRNA and pDNA, demonstrating their 
cargo-agnostic nature. Lastly, we showcased the targeted BCP-LNPs using a 
Cetuximab-conjugated formulation. These targeted LNPs show significant promise 
in delivering cargo specific to EGFR-overexpressing cells (A549 cells), with up 
to 2.4 times higher transfection compared to nontargeted LNPs. This finding 
underscores the potential of BCP-LNPs in targeted gene therapy, especially in 
challenging scenarios such as tumor targeting. Overall, our study establishes 
the viability of BCP-LNPs as a versatile, efficient, and targeted delivery 
platform for nucleic acids, opening avenues for advanced therapeutic 
applications.

DOI: 10.1021/acsabm.4c01176
PMID: 39480746

PMID: 39480634
Abstract: 1. Dokl Biochem Biophys. 2024 Oct 31. doi: 10.1134/S160767292460088X. Online
ahead  of print.

Effects of Overexpression of Specific Subunits SAYP, BAP170 of the Chromatin 
Remodeling Complex in Drosophila Melanogaster.

Chmykhalo VK(1), Shidlovskii YV(2), Lebedeva LA(2), Schedl P(3), Giordano E(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gene Biology, Russian Academy of Sciences, Laboratory of Gene 
Expression Regulation in Development, Moscow, Russia. vkchmykhalo@icloud.com.
(2)Institute of Gene Biology, Russian Academy of Sciences, Laboratory of Gene 
Expression Regulation in Development, Moscow, Russia.
(3)Princeton University, Princeton, USA.
(4)Università di Napoli Federico II, Naples, Italy.

The phenotypic manifestations of increased expression of the Bap170 and e(y)3 
(SAYP) genes in D. melanogaster were analyzed. Using the wing disc model, we 
show that moderate co-expression of Bap170 and e(y)3 genes in wing discs leads 
to abnormalities in wing veining. which was probably caused by suppression of 
EGFR/Ras/MAPK signaling pathways. Strong induction of co-expression of the above 
genes in wing discs leads to complete suppression of wing development in adults. 
Ubiquitous co-expression of Bap170 and e(y)3 is lethal at the 1st instar larval 
stage and leads to the formation of melanotic tumors. The above phenotypes are 
observed exclusively when Bap170 and e(y)3 are co-expressed. This evidence 
suggests a robust synergistic effect of the combined action of these genes, 
which is manifested in the hyperactivity of cell proliferation and 
differentiation.

© 2024. Pleiades Publishing, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1134/S160767292460088X
PMID: 39480634

PMID: 39482470
Abstract: 1. Nat Chem Biol. 2024 Oct 31. doi: 10.1038/s41589-024-01761-8. Online ahead of 
print.

A multiplex single-cell RNA-Seq pharmacotranscriptomics pipeline for drug 
discovery.

Dini A(1), Barker H(1)(2), Piki E(1), Sharma S(1), Raivola J(3), Murumägi A(4), 
Ungureanu D(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Disease Networks Unit, Faculty of Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine, 
University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland.
(2)Tampere University Hospital and Faculty of Medicine and Health Technology, 
Tampere University, Tampere, Finland.
(3)Applied Tumor Genomics, Research Program Unit, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(4)Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland (FIMM), Helsinki Institute of Life 
Science (HiLIFE), University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(5)Disease Networks Unit, Faculty of Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine, 
University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland. daniela.ungureanu@oulu.fi.
(6)Applied Tumor Genomics, Research Program Unit, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland. daniela.ungureanu@oulu.fi.

The gene-regulatory dynamics governing drug responses in cancer are yet to be 
fully understood. Here, we report a pipeline capable of producing 
high-throughput pharmacotranscriptomic profiling through live-cell barcoding 
using antibody-oligonucleotide conjugates. This pipeline combines drug screening 
with 96-plex single-cell RNA sequencing. We show the potential of this approach 
by exploring the heterogeneous transcriptional landscape of primary high-grade 
serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) cells after treatment with 45 drugs, with 13 
distinct classes of mechanisms of action. A subset of phosphatidylinositol 3-OH 
kinase (PI3K), protein kinase B (AKT) and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) 
inhibitors induced the activation of receptor tyrosine kinases, such as the 
epithelial growth factor receptor (EGFR), and this was mediated by the 
upregulation of caveolin 1 (CAV1). This drug resistance feedback loop could be 
mitigated by the synergistic action of agents targeting PI3K-AKT-mTOR and EGFR 
for HGSOC with CAV1 and EGFR expression. Using this workflow could enable the 
personalized testing of patient-derived tumor samples at single-cell resolution.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41589-024-01761-8
PMID: 39482470

PMID: 39507528
Abstract: 1. Front Immunol. 2024 Oct 23;15:1438640. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1438640. 
eCollection 2024.

The mechanism underlying B-cell developmental dysfunction in Kawasaki disease 
based on single-cell transcriptomic sequencing.

Lin Q(#)(1), Wang Z(#)(2), Ding G(3), Li G(4), Chen L(1), Qiu Q(1), Song S(1), 
Liu W(1), Jiang X(1), Huang M(1)(5), Shen L(3), Xiao T(1), Xie L(1)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Shanghai Children's Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Shanghai Institute of Nutrition and Health, University of Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(3)Institute for Digital Health, International Human Phenome Institutes 
(Shanghai), Shanghai, China.
(4)Daozhi Precision Medicine Technology Co., LTD, Shanghai, China.
(5)Institute of Pediatric Infection, Immunity, and Critical Care Medicine, 
School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, Jinshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Kawasaki disease (KD) is an acute systemic vasculitis that can lead 
to acquired heart disease in children mostly from in developed countries. The 
previous research showed that B cells in KD patients underwent a profound change 
in both the cell numbers and types after intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) 
therapy.
METHODS: We performed the single-cell RNA-sequencing for the peripheral blood 
mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from three febrile patients and three KD patients to 
investigate the possible mechanism underlying B cell developmental dysfunction 
in KD. The pseudo-time analysis was employed to study the developmental 
trajectories of the PBMCs in febrile control and KD patients.
RESULTS: Overall single-cell expression profiles show that the biological 
processes of immunity, B cell activation pathway and their related biological 
entities are repressed in KD patients before IVIG treatment compared to febrile 
patient and KD patients after IVIG treatment. The differentially expressed gene 
analyses further demonstrate that B cell signaling pathway is downregulated in B 
cells and plasma blast cells of KD patients before treatment while cell cycle 
genes and MYC gene are upregulated in dendritic cells (DCs) and hematopoietic 
stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) of KD patients before treatment. The 
biological process of immune response is upregulated in the HSPCs of KD patients 
before treatment in our dataset while the biological process of inflammatory 
response is upregulated in the HSPCs of KD patients before treatment in 
GSE168732 dataset. Single-cell trajectory analyses demonstrate that KD patients 
before treatment have a shortened developmental path in which B cells and T 
cells are failed to differentiate into separate lineages. HSPD1 and HSPE1 genes 
show an elevated expression level in the early cell development stage of KD 
patients before treatment accompanied with the repression of MYC, SPI1, MT2A and 
UBE2C genes. Our analyses of all B cells from KD patients before treatment show 
most of B cells are arrested in a transitional state with an ill developmental 
path compared with febrile patients and KD patients after treatment.
CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that the immune premature HSPCs accompanied 
with the abnormal expression dynamics of cell cycle and SPI1 genes are the 
mechanism underlying B cell developmental dysfunction in KD patients.

Copyright © 2024 Lin, Wang, Ding, Li, Chen, Qiu, Song, Liu, Jiang, Huang, Shen, 
Xiao and Xie.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1438640
PMCID: PMC11537935
PMID: 39507528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author GL was employed by the company Daozhi 
Precision Medicine Technology Shanghai Co., LTD. The remaining authors declare 
that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

PMID: 39504779
Abstract: 1. Comput Biol Med. 2024 Nov 5;183:109286. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2024.109286.
 Online ahead of print.

In silico exploration of phytochemicals as inhibitors for acute myeloid leukemia 
by targeting LIN28A gene: A cheminformatics study.

Hassan A(1), Hassanein SE(2), Elabsawy EA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioinformatics, Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology Research 
Institute (GEBRI), University of Sadat City, Sadat, 32897, Egypt. Electronic 
address: amrhassan.nanotechnology@gmail.com.
(2)Agricultural Genetic Engineering Research Institute (AGERI), Agriculture 
Research Center (ARC), Giza, Egypt; Bioinformatics Program, School of 
Biotechnology, Nile University, Giza, Egypt.
(3)Department of Bioinformatics, Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology Research 
Institute (GEBRI), University of Sadat City, Sadat, 32897, Egypt.

BACKGROUND: Recent discoveries have illustrated that Lin28A is an oncogene in 
various cancers, particularly acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The upregulation of 
Lin28A can actively contribute to tumorigenesis and migration processes in 
multiple organs. Hence, the inhibition of Lin28A can be achieved by applying 
phytochemical herbals and targeting Lin28A protein using a computer-aided drug 
design (CAAD) approach.
METHODS: In this study, we comprehensively applied several bioinformatics tools, 
including gene ontologies, gene enrichment analysis, and protein-protein 
interactions (PPI), to determine the biological pathways, functional gene 
ontology, and biological pathway. Furthermore, we investigated a list of 
phytochemical herbs as a candidate drug by applying a computation technique 
involving molecular docking, density functional theory (DFT), molecular dynamics 
simulation (MDs), and pharmacokinetic and physiochemical properties by applying 
the SwissADME, pkCSM, and Molsoft LLC web-servers.
RESULTS: The Lin28A gene is related to two significant enrichment pathways, 
including proteoglycans in cancer and the pluripotency of stem cells through 
interactions with different genes such as MAPK12, MYC, MTOR, and PIK3CA. 
Interestingly, limonin, 18β Glycyrrhetic Acid, and baicalein have the highest 
binding energy scores of -8.4, -8.2, and -7.3 kcal/mol, respectively. The DFT 
study revealed that baicalein has a higher reactivity than limonin and 
18β-Glycyrrhetic due to a small energy gap between LUMO and HUMO. Molecular 
dynamics simulation exhibited that baicalein complex with Lin28A protein is more 
stable than other complexes during simulation time due to low fluctuation with 
simulation periods as compared with other complexes, which indicated that 
baicalein was more fitting to docking and combining in the protein cave because 
of the largest number of H-bonds available for the docking simulation process. 
Furthermore, the drug-likeness and ADMET profiles revealed the activity of 
limonin, baicalein, and 18β-glycyrrhizic Acid, which possess significant 
inhibiting Lin28A proteins.
CONCLUSION: This study elucidated that baicalein, 18β-glycyrrhizic, and limonin 
may be applied as potential candidates for targeting Lin28A as an active 
oncogene for acute myeloid leukemia.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2024.109286
PMID: 39504779

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

PMID: 39503247
Abstract: 1. Cancer Med. 2024 Nov;13(21):e70397. doi: 10.1002/cam4.70397.

Isobutyric Acid Promotes Immune Evasion in Colorectal Cancer via Increased PD-L1 
Expression.

Lin Q(1)(2), Wang H(1), Chen W(1)(2), Wei X(1)(2), Chen J(1)(2), Deng Y(3), Wei 
C(1)(2), Lai H(1)(2), Mo X(1)(2), Tang W(1)(2), Luo T(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, Guangxi Medical University Cancer 
Hospital, Guangxi Medical University, Nanning, Guangxi, P.R. China.
(2)Guangxi Key Laboratory of Basic and Translational Research of Colorectal 
Cancer, Nanning, Guangxi, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Ultrasound, Guangxi Medical University Cancer Hospital, Guangxi 
Medical University, Nanning, Guangxi, P.R. China.

INTRODUCTION: Isobutyric acid (IBA), a short-chain fatty acid, has been 
unequivocally demonstrated to exert significant influence on the progression of 
colorectal cancer (CRC). Nevertheless, a comprehensive understanding of its 
intricate regulatory mechanisms remains elusive.
METHODS: Employing advanced techniques such as western blot, RT-qPCR, and flow 
cytometry, we systematically investigated the impact of IBA on the expression of 
PD-L1 in CRC cells. Concurrently, employing RNA silencing technology and 
small-molecule inhibitors, we delved into the molecular intricacies underlying 
the regulatory axis of IBA involving ROCK1/c-Myc/PD-L1. Furthermore, through 
flow cytometry analysis, we examined the alterations in the tumor immune 
microenvironment following anti-PD-L1 antibody therapy in a murine tumor model 
treated with IBA.
RESULTS: Elevated levels of IBA were found to robustly activate PD-L1 expression 
in CRC cells both in vitro and in vivo, concomitantly reshaping the tumor immune 
microenvironment. Subsequent mechanistic investigations unveiled that IBA, 
through its interaction and activation of ROCK1, promotes the activation of 
c-Myc, thereby enhancing the transcription of PD-L1. Silencing of ROCK1 and 
application of ROCK1 inhibitors effectively reversed the regulatory effects of 
IBA on PD-L1. Additionally, IBA inhibited the activity of infiltrating CD8+ T 
cells, resulting in diminished antitumor immunity and attenuating the 
sensitivity to anti-PD-L1 therapy.
CONCLUSION: Our study elucidates a novel mechanism by which IBA inhibits the 
sensitivity of CRC to anti-PD-L1 antibody therapy. Emphasizing IBA and its 
downstream pathways as potential therapeutic targets for immune therapy 
resistance mechanisms, our findings provide a novel theoretical foundation for 
overcoming immune therapy resistance.

© 2024 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.70397
PMID: 39503247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

PMID: 39503194
Abstract: 1. Mol Carcinog. 2024 Nov 6. doi: 10.1002/mc.23839. Online ahead of print.

NEK2 Promotes ESCC Malignant Progression by Inhibiting Cellular Senescence via 
the FOXM1/c-Myc/p27 Signaling Pathway.

Li J(1), Wang Y(2)(3), Wei S(2)(3), Xu S(1), Dai S(2)(3), Zhang L(4), Tian Z(1), 
Zhao L(2)(3), Lv H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, The Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical 
University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China.
(2)Research Center, The Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Tumor Gene Diagnosis, Prevention, and Therapy of Hebei 
Province, The Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, 
China.
(4)Department of Geriatric, The Third Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China.

Never in mitosis gene A (NIMA)-related kinase 2 (NEK2) is a crucial 
serine-threonine kinase involved in the process of cell mitosis. However, the 
precise relationship between NEK2 and esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) 
remains inadequately understood. NEK2 expression in ESCC tissues was assessed 
through bioinformatics analysis, reverse transcription-quantitative PCR 
(RT-qPCR) and immunohistochemistry, revealing a correlation with ESCC patient 
prognosis. Cultured ESCC cells and human normal esophageal epithelial cells 
(HEEC) were used to investigate the effects of NEK2 knockdown on the development 
and progression of ESCC by integrated confluence algorithm, colony formation, 
wound-healing, transwell, and ESCC xenograft tumor model, in vitro and in vivo. 
In ESCC tissues, NEK2 was found to be significantly upregulated, and its 
expression correlated with poor prognosis in ESCC patients. NEK2 may facilitate 
ESCC development by regulating cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. 
Additionally, results from in vivo experiments suggested that NEK2 knockdown can 
inhibit tumor growth. Moreover, forkhead box M1 (FOXM1) was identified as a 
potential downstream target of NEK2 in the regulation of ESCC, with its 
overexpression reversing the effects of NEK2 knockdown on ESCC. Mechanistic 
studies also indicated that NEK2 may promote the malignant progression of ESCC 
by inhibiting cellular senescence through the activation of the FOXM1/c-Myc/p27 
signaling pathways, which may provide a novel perspective for the management of 
ESCC.

© 2024 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/mc.23839
PMID: 39503194

PMID: 39502790
Abstract: 1. Anim Cells Syst (Seoul). 2024 Nov 1;28(1):536-550. doi: 
10.1080/19768354.2024.2417458. eCollection 2024.

AP001885.4 promotes the proliferation of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma 
cells by histone lactylation- and NF-κB (p65)-dependent transcription activation 
and METTL3-mediated mRNA stability of c-myc.

Fu C(1), Jiang W(2), Wang C(1), Song SJ(1), Tao H(1), Zhang XG(1), Li WT(1), Jin 
X(1), Yu BB(3), Hao JJ(4), Sun WJ(5), Bai J(1), Shi ZZ(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical School, Kunming University of Science and Technology, Kunming, 
People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Thoracic Surgery, the Affiliated Hospital of Kunming University 
of Science and Technology and First People's Hospital of Yunnan Province, 
Kunming, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Anus & Intestine Surgery, Kunming Municipal Hospital of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Kunming, People's Republic of China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Oncology, Center for Cancer Precision 
Medicine, National Clinical Research Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, National 
Cancer Center, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences (CAMS), Peking Union Medical 
College (PUMC), Beijing, People's Republic of China.
(5)Nephrology Division, Pu'er People's Hospital, Pu'er, People's Republic of 
China.

Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is an aggressive malignant neoplasm, 
and up to now, the role of long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) AP001885.4 in cancer, 
including ESCC, is absolutely unclear. The GEPIA database was applied to 
identify differentially expressed and prognosis-associated genes in esophageal 
cancer (ESCA). CCK-8, colony formation, Western blot, and qRT-PCR methods were 
harnessed to investigate the role and mechanism of AP001885.4 in esophageal 
carcinogenesis. By analyzing TCGA data in the GEPIA database, two lncRNAs were 
selected. AP001885.4 was overexpressed and positively associated with the 
unfavorable outcome of ESCC patients, and LINC001786 was under-expressed and 
negatively linked with the poor prognosis. Knockdown of AP001885.4 suppressed 
the proliferation and colony formation of ESCC cells. Importantly, the silence 
of AP001885.4 downregulated c-myc. Mechanically, the knockdown of AP001885.4 
reduced METTL3 expression and m6A modification in c-myc mRNA, and METTL3 
positively regulated c-myc. Furthermore, the knockdown of AP001885.4 diminished 
histone lactylation and NF-κB (p65) expression, and the protein lactylation 
inhibitors (2-DG, 2-deoxy-D-glucose and oxamate) and the NF-κB inhibitor 
(JSH-23) also lessened c-myc expression. Consequently, our findings suggested 
that AP001885.4 promoted the proliferation of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma 
cells by histone lactylation- and NF-κB (p65)-dependent transcription activation 
and METTL3-mediated mRNA stability of c-myc.

© 2024 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & 
Francis Group.

DOI: 10.1080/19768354.2024.2417458
PMCID: PMC11536669
PMID: 39502790

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).

PMID: 39502045
Abstract: 1. Zhongguo Yi Xue Ke Xue Yuan Xue Bao. 2024 Oct;46(5):641-652. doi: 
10.3881/j.issn.1000-503X.16003.

[Effects of Proteasome 20S Subunit Beta 8 on Proliferation,Migration,and 
Invasion of Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma Cells via Mitogen-Activated Protein 
Kinase Kinase/Extracellular Signal-Regulated Kinase Signaling Pathway].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Hao YF(1), Shi Y(2), Zheng JX(3), Zhao XT(3), Liu SL(1), Yang LJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology,Shanxi Medical University,Taiyuan 030001,China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Tumor Immunology and Targeted Drug Development of Shanxi 
Province,Shanxi Medical University,Taiyuan 030001,China.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology,School of Basic Medical 
Sciences,Shanxi Medical University,Taiyuan 030001,China.

Objective To explore the effects of proteasome 20S subunit beta 8 (PSMB8) on the 
proliferation,migration,and invasion of clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) 
cells and whether PSMB8 promotes tumor progression by activating the 
mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK)/extracellular signal-regulated 
kinase (ERK) signaling pathway. Methods The Cancer Genome Atlas was employed to 
analyze the mRNA levels of PSMB8 in ccRCC and normal tissue,and the expression 
levels of PSMB8 in ccRCC tissue and cells were determined by real-time 
quantitative PCR,Western blotting,and immunohistochemistry.Furthermore,the cell 
lines with stable overexpression and knockdown of PSMB8 were constructed.The 
CCK-8 assay and colony formation assay were employed to examine the cell 
proliferation,and the wound healing assay and Transwell assay were employed to 
examine the invasion and migration of cells.Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and 
Genomes pathway enrichment was performed to analyze the co-expressed genes of 
PSMB8.Western blotting was used to measure the phosphorylation levels of the 
proteins in the MEK/ERK signaling pathway.Finally,the rescue experiment was 
carried out with the ERK agonist C16-PAF. Results Compared with the normal 
tissue,the ccRCC tissue showed up-regulated mRNA and protein levels of PSMB8 
(both P<0.001),which were associated with the TNM stage of patients with ccRCC 
(P<0.001).Compared with the negative control group,overexpression of PSMB8 
promoted the proliferation (P=0.021,P=0.039),migration and invasion (all 
P<0.001) of 786-O and ACHN cells,and the knockdown of PSMB8 inhibited the 
proliferation (P=0.022,P=0.005),migration and invasion (all P<0.001) of 786-O 
and ACHN cells.The pathway enrichment analysis of co-expressed genes of PSMB8 
predicted the mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathway (P<0.001).After 
the knockdown of PSMB8,786-O and ACHN cells showed lowered phosphorylation 
levels of MEK1/2 (P=0.017,P=0.016) and ERK1/2 (P=0.010,P=0.040) and 
down-regulated transcription levels of ERK downstream factors c-Myc 
(P=0.043,P=0.038),c-Fos (P=0.025,P=0.008),and CyclinD1 
(P=0.006,P=0.047).Compared with the ERK agonist C16-PAF group,the PSMB8 
knockdown + C16-PAF group showed inhibited proliferation 
(P=0.003,P=0.002),migration and invasion (all P<0.001) of 786-O and ACHN cells. 
Conclusion PSMB8 may promote the proliferation,migration,and invasion of ccRCC 
cells by activating the MEK/ERK signaling pathway.

Publisher: 目的 
探究蛋白酶体20S亚基β8(PSMB8)对肾透明细胞癌(ccRCC)细胞增殖、迁移和侵袭的影响,以及是否通过调控丝裂原活化蛋白激酶激酶(MEK)/细胞外信号调节激酶(ERK)信号通路发挥其作用。方法 
采用癌症基因组图谱数据库分析ccRCC与正常组织PSMB8 mRNA的表达水平,并通过实时荧光定量PCR、Western 
blot和免疫组织化学染色等方法进一步检测PSMB8在ccRCC组织和细胞中的表达情况。构建稳定过表达和敲减PSMB8的细胞株,分别采用CCK-8法和平板克隆实验检测细胞的增殖能力,划痕愈合实验和Transwell实验检测细胞迁移和侵袭的能力。对PSMB8共表达基因进行京都基因与基因组百科全书通路富集分析,Western 
blot检测MEK/ERK通路相关蛋白的磷酸化水平,并加用ERK激动剂C16-PAF处理进行细胞功能学挽救实验。结果 与正常组织比较,PSMB8 
mRNA和蛋白在ccRCC组织中呈高表达(P均<0.001),且与临床患者的TNM分期显著相关(P<0.001);与阴性对照组比较,过表达PSMB8可以促进786-O、ACHN细胞的增殖(P=0.021,P=0.039)、迁移和侵袭(P均<0.001),敲减PSMB8可以抑制786-O、ACHN细胞的增殖(P=0.022,P=0.005)、迁移和侵袭(P均<0.001);PSMB8共表达基因通路富集分析提示其可能与丝裂原活化蛋白激酶通路相关(P<0.001);敲减PSMB8后786-O和ACHN细胞MEK1/2(P=0.017,P=0.016)、ERK1/2(P=0.010,P=0.040)蛋白磷酸化水平及ERK下游因子c-Myc(P=0.043,P=0.038)、c-Fos(P=0.025,P=0.008)和CyclinD1(P=0.006,P=0.047)转录水平均下调;与ERK激动剂C16-PAF处理组比较,敲减PSMB8 
+ C16-PAF组明显抑制786-O、ACHN细胞的增殖(P=0.003,P=0.002)、迁移和侵袭能力(P均<0.001)。结论 
PSMB8通过激活MEK/ERK信号通路从而促进ccRCC细胞的增殖、迁移及侵袭。.

DOI: 10.3881/j.issn.1000-503X.16003
PMID: 39502045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

PMID: 39501920
Abstract: 1. J Gene Med. 2024 Nov;26(11):e3739. doi: 10.1002/jgm.3739.

Integrative analyses of genetic mechanisms responsible for bone-fat imbalance in 
osteoporosis.

Zhang Z(1)(2), Tao Z(1), Zhang Y(3), Zhang Z(1), Zhang W(1), Zhang X(1)(4), Zhao 
J(3), Tao C(3), Zhou X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Changzheng Hospital, Second Military Medical 
University (Naval Medical University), Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Rehabilitation, Qingdao Special Servicemen 
Recuperation Center of PLA Navy, Qingdao, China.
(3)NO.1 District Department of Orthopedics, No. 971 Hospital of PLA Navy, 
Qingdao, China.
(4)College of Basic Medicine, Second Military Medical University (Naval Medical 
University), Shanghai, China.

Osteoporosis manifests through adipocyte accrual and osteoblast diminution 
within bone marrow. However, the precise mechanisms driving the shift from 
osteogenesis to adipogenesis in bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) 
remain largely undefined. In this study, we harnessed the power of bioinformatic 
tools to analyze gene expression patterns of BMSCs during adipogenic 
differentiation and osteoporosis using the data from Gene Expression Omnibus 
(GEO) repositories (GSE113253 and GSE35956), complemented by in vitro and in 
vivo experiments to validate the findings. Five distinct expression profiles of 
differentially expressed genes across the adipogenic timeline were identified. 
The initial phase is marked by ribosome biogenesis and rRNA processing, which is 
followed by the metabolism of organic acids and processing of inorganic ions. In 
contrast, the terminal phase is characterized by lipid transport, accumulation, 
and metabolism, alongside inorganic cation metabolism, thereby underscoring 
unique transcriptional signatures during the early and late stages of adipogenic 
differentiation. In BMSCs derived from osteoporotic samples, there is a notable 
decline in cellular proliferation and a diminished osteogenic capacity. 
Critically, the genes common to both adipogenesis and osteoporosis in BMSCs are 
predominantly involved in the negative regulation of Wnt signaling and cellular 
proliferation. Key genes including SOCS1, MYC, CEBPB, FYN, AXIN2, and RXRA are 
identified and show downregulation in BMSCs from aged mice. Subsequent in vitro 
experiments have validated the regulatory influence of RXRA on both adipogenic 
and osteogenic differentiations of BMSCs, highlighting its crucial role as a 
central modulator in bone formation and the pathophysiology of osteoporosis.

© 2024 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jgm.3739
PMID: 39501920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

PMID: 39501082
Abstract: 1. Cancer Gene Ther. 2024 Nov 5. doi: 10.1038/s41417-024-00847-8. Online ahead of
 print.

Novel pharmacologic inhibition of lysine-specific demethylase 1 as a potential 
therapeutic for glioblastoma.

Shinjo K(#)(1), Umehara T(#)(2), Niwa H(2), Sato S(2), Katsushima K(1), Sato 
S(3), Wang X(1), Murofushi Y(1), Suzuki MM(1), Koyama H(4), Kondo Y(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Biology, Center for Neurological Diseases and Cancer, 
Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan.
(2)Laboratory for Epigenetics Drug Discovery, RIKEN Center for Biosystems 
Dynamics Research, Yokohama, Japan.
(3)Morphological Information Analysis Laboratory, Kanagawa Cancer Center 
Research Institute, Yokohama, Japan.
(4)Drug Discovery Chemistry Platform Unit, RIKEN Center for Sustainable Resource 
Science, Wako, Japan.
(5)Division of Cancer Biology, Center for Neurological Diseases and Cancer, 
Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan. 
kondo.yutaka.a2@f.mail.nagoya-u.ac.jp.
(6)Center for One Medicine Innovative Translational Research (COMIT), Nagoya, 
Japan. kondo.yutaka.a2@f.mail.nagoya-u.ac.jp.
(7)Institute for Glyco-core Research (iGCORE), Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan. 
kondo.yutaka.a2@f.mail.nagoya-u.ac.jp.
(#)Contributed equally

Lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1/KDM1A) is a pivotal epigenetic enzyme that 
contributes to several malignancies including malignant glioma. LSD1 is a flavin 
adenine dinucleotide dependent histone demethylase that specifically targets 
histone H3 lysine (K) 4 mono- (me1) and di-methylation (me2) and H3K9me1/2 for 
demethylation. Herein we report the development of an LSD inhibitor, S2172, 
which efficiently penetrates the blood-brain barrier. S2172 effectively 
suppresses LSD1 enzymatic activity, resulting in the depletion of cell growth 
both in vitro in glioma stem cells (GSCs) (mean half-maximal inhibitory 
concentration (IC50) of 13.8 μM) and in vivo in a GSC orthotopic xenograft mouse 
model. Treatment with S2172 robustly reduced the expression of the 
stemness-related genes MYC and Nestin in GSC cells. Consistent with this, 
chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing revealed a significant S2172-dependent 
alteration in H3K4me2/H3K4me3 status. Furthermore, we identified 284 newly 
acquired H3K4me2 peak regions after S2172 treatment, which were encompassed 
within super-enhancer regions. The altered H3K4me2/H3K4me3 status induced by 
S2172 treatment affected the expression of genes related to tumorigenesis. Our 
data suggest that targeting LSD1 with S2172 could provide a promising treatment 
option for glioblastomas, particularly due to targeting of GSC populations.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41417-024-00847-8
PMID: 39501082

PMID: 39499704
Abstract: 1. PLoS One. 2024 Nov 5;19(11):e0307667. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0307667. 
eCollection 2024.

TCF4 promotes apoptosis and Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway in acute kidney 
injury via transcriptional regulation of COX7A2L.

Xi M(1), Lu J(1), Qi H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Shanghai Pudong New Area People's Hospital, 
Shanghai, China.

BACKGROUND: Acute kidney injury (AKI) is still a serious kidney illness with 
high morbidity and death rates, and it's crucial to comprehend the underlying 
molecular causes.
METHODS: Bioinformatics analysis was performed on GSE139061 and GSE30718 data 
sets, and COX7A2L was screened out. The role of COX7A2L in H/R-treated cells and 
its transcriptional regulation with TCF4 were assessed. In vitro experiments 
analyzed the regulation of COX7A2L and TCF4 on the proliferation, apoptosis, and 
Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway of H/R-treated cells.
RESULTS: COX7A2L as a hub gene was downregulated in AKI samples. In H/R-treated 
cells, COX7A2L overexpression inhibited apoptosis and promoted cell 
proliferation, while COX7A2L knockdown promoted apoptosis and inhibited cell 
proliferation. Notably, TCF4 exhibited a significant positive correlation with 
COX7A2L. TCF4 overexpression-induced apoptosis was lessened and improved cell 
proliferation was countered by COX7A2L knockdown, according to rescue study 
findings. Besides, we discovered that TCF4 overexpression increased the 
expression of proteins linked to the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway (c-myc, 
β-catenin, and cyclin D1), while underexpression of COX7A2L counteracted this 
effect.
CONCLUSION: The study revealed the pivotal role of COX7A2L in AKI, which is 
regulated by TCF4 and modulates the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, 
highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target.

Copyright: © 2024 Xi et al. This is an open access article distributed under the 
terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted 
use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author 
and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0307667
PMCID: PMC11537394
PMID: 39499704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.

PMID: 39499101
Abstract: 1. Integr Biol (Camb). 2024 Jan 23;16:zyae018. doi: 10.1093/intbio/zyae018.

Network dynamics investigation of omics-data-driven circadian-hypoxia crosstalk 
logical model in gallbladder cancer reveals key therapeutic target combinations.

Singh A(1), Dwivedi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioengineering and Biotechnology, Birla Institute of 
Technology, Mesra, Ranchi 835215, Jharkhand, India.

Recent findings in cancer research have pointed towards the bidirectional 
interaction between circadian and hypoxia pathways. However, little is known 
about their crosstalk mechanism. In this work, we aimed to investigate this 
crosstalk at a network level utilizing the omics information of gallbladder 
cancer. Differential gene expression and pathway enrichment analysis were used 
for selecting the crucial genes from both the pathways, followed by the 
construction of a logical crosstalk model using GINsim. Functional circuit 
identification and node perturbations were then performed. Significant node 
combinations were used to investigate the temporal behavior of the network 
through MaBoSS. Lastly, the model was validated using published in vitro 
experimentations. Four new positive circuits and a new axis viz. BMAL1/ HIF1αβ/ 
NANOG, responsible for stemness were identified. Through triple node 
perturbations viz.a. BMAL:CLOCK (KO or E1) + P53 (E1) + HIF1α (KO); b. P53 
(E1) + HIF1α (KO) + MYC (E1); and c. HIF1α (KO) + MYC (E1) + EGFR (KO), the 
model was able to inhibit cancer growth and maintain a homeostatic condition. 
This work provides an architecture for drug simulation analysis to entrainment 
circadian rhythm and in vitro experiments for chronotherapy-related studies. 
Insight Box. Circadian rhythm and hypoxia are the key dysregulated processes 
which fuels-up the cancer growth. In the present work we have developed a 
gallbladder cancer (GBC) specific Boolean model, utilizing the RNASeq data from 
GBC dataset and tissue specific interactions. This work adequately models the 
bidirectional nature of interactions previously illustrated in experimental 
papers showing the effect of hypoxia on dysregulation of circadian rhythm and 
the influence of this disruption on progression towards metastasis. Through the 
dynamical study of the model and its response to different perturbations, we 
report novel triple node combinations that can be targeted to efficiently reduce 
GBC growth. This network can be used as a generalized framework to investigate 
different crosstalk pathways linked with cancer progression.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/intbio/zyae018
PMID: 39499101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

PMID: 39491746
Abstract: 1. Mod Pathol. 2024 Nov 2:100647. doi: 10.1016/j.modpat.2024.100647. Online ahead
 of print.

Proximal and classic epithelioid sarcomas are distinct molecular entities 
defined by MYC/GATA3 and SOX17/endothelial markers, respectively.

Sigalotti L(1), Frezza AM(2), Sbaraglia M(3), Del Savio E(1), Baldazzi D(1), 
Valenti B(1), Bellan E(4), De Benedictis I(1), Doni M(1), Gambarotti M(5), 
Vincenzi B(6), Brunello A(7), Baldi GG(8), Palmerini E(9), Pasquali S(10), 
Ciuffetti ME(1), Varano V(1), Cappello F(4), Appolloni V(11), Pastrello C(12), 
Jurisica I(13), Gronchi A(14), Stacchiotti S(2), Casali PG(15), Dei Tos AP(3), 
Maestro R(16).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Oncogenetics and Functional Oncogenomics, Centro di Riferimento 
Oncologico di Aviano (CRO Aviano) IRCCS, National Cancer Institute, Aviano, 
Italy.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei 
Tumori, Milan, Italy.
(3)Surgical Pathology and Cytopathology Unit, Department of Medicine-DIMED, 
University of Padua School of Medicine, Padua, Italy.
(4)Department of Pathology, Azienda Ospedale Università Padova, Padua, Italy.
(5)Department of Pathology, IRCCS, Istituto Ortopedico Rizzoli, Bologna, Italy.
(6)Department of Medical Oncology, Università Campus Biomedico di Roma, Rome, 
Italy.
(7)Department of Oncology, Medical Oncology 1 Unit, Istituto Oncologico Veneto 
IOV, IRCCS, Padua, Italy.
(8)Department of Medical Oncology, Hospital of Prato, Azienda USL Toscana 
Centro, Prato, Italy.
(9)Osteoncology, Bone and Soft Tissue Sarcomas and Innovative Therapies, IRCCS, 
Istituto Ortopedico Rizzoli, Bologna, Italy.
(10)Department of Applied Research and Technological Development, Molecular 
Pharmacology Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan, Italy.
(11)Italian Sarcoma Group, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, 
Milan, Italy.
(12)Division of Orthopaedic Surgery, Schroeder Arthritis Institute, Toronto, 
Canada, and Data Science Discovery Centre for Chronic Diseases, Krembil Research 
Institute, Toronto, Canada.
(13)Division of Orthopaedic Surgery, Schroeder Arthritis Institute, Toronto, 
Canada, and Data Science Discovery Centre for Chronic Diseases, Krembil Research 
Institute, Toronto, Canada; Departments of Medical Biophysics and Computer 
Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada; Institute of Neuroimmunology, 
Slovak Academy of Sciences, Bratislava, Slovakia.
(14)Department of Sarcoma Surgery, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei 
Tumori, Milan, Italy.
(15)Department of Medical Oncology, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei 
Tumori, Milan, Italy; Department of Oncology and Haemato-Oncology, University of 
Milan, Milan, Italy.
(16)Unit of Oncogenetics and Functional Oncogenomics, Centro di Riferimento 
Oncologico di Aviano (CRO Aviano) IRCCS, National Cancer Institute, Aviano, 
Italy. Electronic address: rmaestro@cro.it.

Epithelioid sarcoma (ES) is a rare tumor hallmarked by the loss of INI1/SMARCB1 
expression. Apart from this alteration, little is known about the biology of ES. 
Despite recent advances in treatment, the prognosis of ES remains 
unsatisfactory. To elucidate the molecular underpinnings of ES, and to identify 
diagnostic biomarkers and potential therapeutic vulnerabilities, we performed an 
integrated omics profiling (RNA sequencing and methylation array) of 24 primary, 
untreated ESs. Transcriptome and methylome analysis identified two distinct 
molecular clusters that essentially corresponded to the morphologic variants of 
ES, classic ES (C-ES) and the more aggressive proximal ES (P-ES). The P-ES group 
was characterized by hyperactivation of GATA3 and MYC pathways, with extensive 
epigenetic rewiring associated with EZH2 overexpression. Both DNA methylation 
and gene expression analysis indicated a striking similarity with the "MYC 
subgroup" of ATRT, another SMARCB1-deficient tumor, implying a shared molecular 
background and potential therapeutic vulnerabilities. Conversely, the C-ES group 
exhibited an endothelial-like molecular profile, with expression of vascular 
genes and elevated pro-angiogenic SOX17 signaling. Immunohistochemistry 
validated the overexpression of the chromatin regulators GATA3 (9/12 vs. 0/16) 
and EZH2 (7/7 vs. 2/6) in P-ESs, and of the vascular factors SOX17 (8/8 vs. 
1/10) and N-cadherin (5/9 vs 0/10) in C-ESs. Therefore, these molecules emerge 
as potential diagnostic tools to fill the gap represented by the lack of ES 
subtype-specific biomarkers. In summary, our study shows that P-ES and C-ES 
represent distinct molecular entities defined by MYC/GATA3 and SOX17/endothelial 
molecular traits, respectively. Besides providing insights into the biology of 
ES, our study pinpoints subtype-specific biomarkers and potential therapeutic 
vulnerabilities.

Copyright © 2024 THE AUTHORS. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.modpat.2024.100647
PMID: 39491746

PMID: 39491745
Abstract: 1. Mod Pathol. 2024 Nov 2:100646. doi: 10.1016/j.modpat.2024.100646. Online ahead
 of print.

Refining Diagnostic Subtypes of Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma Using a 
Multiparameter Approach.

Amador C(1), Weisenburger DD(2), Gomez A(3), Bouska A(2), Alshomrani A(2), 
Sharma S(2), Shah R(2), Greiner TC(2), Vega F(4), Rosenwald A(5), Ott G(6), 
Feldman AL(7), Jaffe ES(8), Ozkaya N(8), Ondrejka SL(9), Cook JR(9), Raess 
PW(10), Savage KJ(11), Slack GW(11), Song JY(12), Scott DW(11), Campo E(13), 
Rimsza LM(14), Khoury JD(2), Staudt LM(15), Chan WC(12), Iqbal J(16); A Leukemia 
and Lymphoma Molecular Profiling Project (LLMPP) Consortium.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Miami Miller 
School of Medicine, Miami, FL. Electronic address: 
catalina.amador@med.miami.edu.
(2)Department of Pathology, Microbiology and Immunology, University of Nebraska 
Medical Center, Omaha, NE.
(3)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Miami Miller 
School of Medicine, Miami, FL.
(4)Department of Hematopathology, Division of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, 
UT MD Anderson Cancer Center.
(5)Institute of Pathology, University of Würzburg, and Comprehensive Cancer 
Center Mainfranken, Würzburg, Germany.
(6)Department of Clinical Pathology, Robert-Bosch Krankenhaus and Dr. Margarete 
Fischer-Bosch Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, Stuttgart, Germany.
(7)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic College of 
Medicine and Science, Rochester, MN.
(8)Laboratory of Pathology, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer 
Institute, Bethesda, MD.
(9)Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH.
(10)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Oregon Health & Science 
University, Portland, OR.
(11)Center for Lymphoid Cancer, British Columbia Cancer, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(12)Department of Pathology, City of Hope National Medical Center, Duarte, CA.
(13)Hematopathology Unit, Hospital Clinic, Barcelona, Spain; Institute of 
Biomedical Research August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), University of Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(14)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic Arizona, 
Scottsdale, AZ.
(15)Metabolism Branch, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD.
(16)Department of Pathology, Microbiology and Immunology, University of Nebraska 
Medical Center, Omaha, NE. Electronic address: jiqbal@unmc.edu.

Peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) is a heterogeneous category, and many cases 
are unclassifiable and designated as PTCL-not otherwise specified (PTCL-NOS). 
Gene expression profiling (GEP) has delineated two prognostic subtypes within 
PTCL-NOS, PTCL-TBX21, and PTCL-GATA3, characterized by distinctive 
transcriptomes and a different prognosis. To further evaluate the pathologic 
features of these subgroups, 101 PTCL cases that did not meet specific criteria 
for well-defined T-cell lymphoma entities underwent detailed pathologic, 
immunophenotypic (including TFH biomarkers) and GEP analyses, separating them 
into PTCL-NOS (n=63) and PTCL-TFH (a.k.a. nodal PTCL-TFH, NOS, and TFH lymphoma, 
NOS) (n=38). PTCL-NOS cases were further categorized into PTCL-GATA3 (n=22; 34%) 
and PTCL-TBX21 (n=41; 66%), and a significant association (p < 0.02) with 
overall survival (OS) was reaffirmed. Histopathological assessment showed 
PTCL-GATA3 cases were characterized by monotonous medium-sized or large 
transformed cells with a minimal tumor microenvironment (TME) compared to 
PTCL-TBX21 cases, which consisted of pleomorphic cells in a polymorphous TME (p 
< 0.05). GEP analysis validated these TME distinctions. Immunophenotypic 
analysis showed that PTCL-GATA3 cases were predominantly CD4+CD8- and associated 
with significantly higher LEF1, MYC, and CD30 expression (p < 0.05). PTCL-TBX21 
displayed a more diverse biomarker profile with two subgroups: one expressing 
cytotoxic antigens and enriched in CD8+CD4- or CD8-CD4- phenotype, and another 
lacking cytotoxic markers but showing a CD4+CD8- phenotype with increased ICOS 
expression, but devoid of other TFH markers. The PTCL-TFH cases correlated with 
an angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AITL) gene signature, had more 
EBER-positive cells than the PTCL-GATA3 and PTCL-TBX21 cases, and a subset had 
some morphologic features of AITL (p < 0.01). This study highlights the unique 
morphologic and phenotypic variations within the newly-identified PTCL subtypes 
and should enable more precise diagnosis and tailored therapeutic strategies in 
the future.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.modpat.2024.100646
PMID: 39491745

PMID: 39490204
Abstract: 1. Lung Cancer. 2024 Oct 24;197:107998. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2024.107998.
Online  ahead of print.

Putative mechanisms of primary resistance to EGFR-targeted therapies: A 
retrospective study.

Tu X(1), Lu Z(2), Hei F(3), Zhang T(4), Wang X(2), Chen D(5), Fan F(6), Xu J(7), 
Zhang X(8), Guo K(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Yellow River Sanmenxia Affliated Hospital 
of Henan University of Science and Technology, Sanmenxia, PR China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Neurology and Oncology Drug Development (Jiangsu 
Simcere Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Jiangsu Simcere Diagnostics Co.,Ltd.), PR 
China; Nanjing Simcere Medical Laboratory Science Co., Ltd., Nanjing, PR China.
(3)Department of Oncology, Ulanqab Central Hospital, Inner Mongolia Autonomous 
Region, PR China.
(4)Department of Oncology, Jiayu Hospital, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University 
(People's Hospital of Jiayu County), Xianning, PR China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Neurology and Oncology Drug Development (Jiangsu 
Simcere Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Jiangsu Simcere Diagnostics Co.,Ltd.), PR 
China; Nanjing Simcere Medical Laboratory Science Co., Ltd., Nanjing, PR China; 
Cancer Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Jinzhou Medical University, 
Jinzhou 121001, PR China.
(6)Department of Oncology, Pingyao County Hospital of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Shanxi, PR China.
(7)Department of Oncology, Yellow River Sanmenxia Affliated Hospital of Henan 
University of Science and Technology, Sanmenxia, PR China.
(8)State Key Laboratory of Neurology and Oncology Drug Development (Jiangsu 
Simcere Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Jiangsu Simcere Diagnostics Co.,Ltd.), PR 
China; Nanjing Simcere Medical Laboratory Science Co., Ltd., Nanjing, PR China; 
Cancer Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Jinzhou Medical University, 
Jinzhou 121001, PR China. Electronic address: xing.zhang@simceredx.com.
(9)Department of Oncology, Yellow River Sanmenxia Affliated Hospital of Henan 
University of Science and Technology, Sanmenxia, PR China. Electronic address: 
guokefeng2007@126.com.

BACKGROUNDS: Advanced lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) patient with EGFR mutations 
often experience resistance to first-line epidermal growth factor tyrosine 
kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) therapy. Nonetheless, the mechanism and biomarkers 
of primary resistance remain unclear. Further exploration of independent 
prognostic factors will help clinicians identify patients who may not respond to 
EGFR-TKIs and select appropriate treatment strategies.
METHODS: A retrospective study involving 124 patients with stage IV LUAD 
harboring a common sensitizing EGFR mutation (exon 19 deletion or L858R 
mutation) who received EGFR-TKIs as first-line therapy was performed. All 
participants were tested by DNA-targeted sequencing in baseline samples, and 
there were 19 patients with progression-free survival (PFS) ≤ 3 months (cohort 
1, C1, primary resistance), 22 patients with 3 < PFS < 8 months (cohort 2, C2, 
poor response) without known mutations associated with resistance, and 83 
patients with PFS ≥ 8 months (cohort 3, C3, normal).
RESULTS: The most commonly mutated genes at baseline in patients prior to 
treatment within the entire study population. were TP53 (65 %), MYC (19 %), 
CDKN2A (12 %), MUC16 (12 %) and RBM10 (12 %). The baseline characteristics, 
except for the proportions of patients with EGFR L858R mutation and exon 19 
deletion in C1 plus C2 compared to C3 (p = 0.036), were not significantly 
different among the cohorts. The frequencies of PIK3C2G, STK11, EPAS1, RARA and 
BTG2 variation were significantly higher in C1, the primary resistance group. 
Multivariate Cox analysis revealed that PIK3C2G (HR 15.70 95 % CI 3.24-76.05, 
p < 0.001), STK11 (HR 17.04, 95 % CI 3.68-78.92, p < 0.001), EPAS1 (HR 11.99, 
95 % CI 2.57-56.03, p = 0.002), and BTG2 amplification (HR 9.53, 95 % CI 
1.67-54.28, p = 0.011) were significantly associated with shorter PFS.
CONCLUSIONS: The genomic landscape varies significantly among patients with 
LUAD, which should be considered when making personalized treatment decisions. 
This information could provide insights into molecular changes and their effects 
on clinical treatment in diverse patients with LUAD harboring sensitizing EGFR 
mutations.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2024.107998
PMID: 39490204

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

PMID: 39489921
Abstract: 1. Mol Ther. 2024 Oct 26:S1525-0016(24)00685-3. doi: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2024.10.025.
 Online ahead of print.

N6-Methyladenosine (m6A) modification activates serine synthesis pathway to 
mediate therapeutic resistance in liver cancer.

Chan FF(1), Kin-Leung Kwan K(2), Seoung DH(2), Wai-Ching Chin D(1), Oi-Lin Ng 
I(1), Chak-Lui Wong C(2), Wong CM(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Liver Research and Department of Pathology, School of 
Clinical Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Liver Research and Department of Pathology, School of 
Clinical Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong; Centre for Oncology and Immunology, Hong Kong Science Park, Hong Kong 
SAR, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Liver Research and Department of Pathology, School of 
Clinical Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong. Electronic address: jackwong@pathology.hku.hk.

Metabolic adaptation serves as a significant driving force for cancer growth and 
poses a substantial obstacle for cancer therapies. Herein, we unravelled the 
role of m6A -mediated serine synthesis pathway regulation in both hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC) development and therapeutic resistance. We demonstrated that the 
highly specific m6A inhibitor (STM2457) treatment effectively inhibited HCC cell 
line growth and suppressed spontaneous HCC formation in mice driven by liver 
specific Tp53 knockout and Myc overexpression. Using GLORI-seq, we delineated a 
single-base resolution m6A landscape in human HCC cell lines. Interestingly, we 
identified three core enzymes in the serine synthesis pathway (PHGDH, PSAT1, and 
PSPH) as novel targets of METTL3-mediated m6A modification. In these SSP genes, 
m6A modification recruited IGF2BP3 reader to stabilize their mRNA transcripts, 
thereby enhancing their mRNA and protein expression in HCC cells. Most 
importantly, our GLORI-seq data revealed that sorafenib-resistant HCC cells 
elevated m6A modification in SSP genes to promote protein expression and 
antioxidant production. STM2457 treatment attenuated the serine synthesis 
pathway, induced oxidative stress, and sensitized HCC cells to sorafenib and 
lenvatinib treatments. In conclusion, our findings suggest that targeting m6A 
could be a potential therapeutic strategy for HCC treatment.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymthe.2024.10.025
PMID: 39489921

PMID: 39484562
Abstract: 1. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Oct 25:2024.10.22.619436. doi: 
10.1101/2024.10.22.619436.

Inhibition of UBE2N in regulatory T-cells boosts immunity against cancer.

Miao W, Jain V, Han M, Jin YJ, Beasley GM, Starczysnowski DT, Gregory SG, Zhang 
JY.

Regulatory T (Treg) cells prevent autoimmunity and facilitate cancer immune 
evasion. Depletion of Tregs is a promising cancer therapy, but risks of 
autoimmune reactions hamper its clinical translation. Here, we demonstrate that 
temporally induced deletion of Ube2n in Tregs (Ube2n Treg-KO ) of adult mice 
results in a robust expansion and activation of cytotoxic CD8 + T-cells in 
response to cancer cell challenges, producing a long-lasting survival benefit 
without autoimmune complications. The anti-tumor effect persists following 
adoptive T-cell transfer to T-cell-deficient Rag1-knockout mice. Single-cell 
transcriptomic analysis revealed that UBE2N deletion shifted immunosuppressive 
Tregs to effector-like T-cells. This shift is characterized by the 
downregulation of c-Myc target genes, resembling that observed in 
tumor-infiltrating Tregs of melanoma patients. Further analyses confirm that 
UBE2N maintains c-Myc protein stability via suppression of 
K48-Ubiquitin-mediated proteasomal degradation. Taken together, our studies 
uncover a hitherto unexplored and potentially druggable UBE2N/c-Myc signaling 
axis to eradicate Treg-enabled cancer immune escape.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.10.22.619436
PMCID: PMC11526935
PMID: 39484562

PMID: 39484457
Abstract: 1. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Oct 27:2024.10.23.619856. doi: 
10.1101/2024.10.23.619856.

NOTCH1 drives tumor plasticity and metastasis in hepatocellular carcinoma.

Lindblad KE, Donne R, Liebling I, Bresnahan E, Barcena-Varela M, Lozano A, Park 
E, Giotti B, Burn O, Fiel MI, Bravo-Cordero JJ, Tsankov AM, Lujambio A.

Liver cancer, the third leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, has 
two main subtypes: hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), accounting most of the cases, 
and cholangiocarcinoma (CAA). NOTCH pathway regulates the intrahepatic 
development of bile ducts, which are lined with cholangiocytes, but it can also 
be upregulated in 1/3 of HCCs. To better understand the role of NOTCH in HCC, we 
developed a novel mouse model driven by activated NOTCH1 intracellular domain 
(NICD1) and MYC overexpression in hepatocytes. Using the hydrodynamic tail vein 
injection method for establishing primary liver tumors, we generated a novel 
murine model of liver cancer harboring MYC overexpression and NOTCH1 activation. 
We characterized this model histopathologically as well as transcriptomically, 
utilizing both bulk and single cell RNA-sequencing. MYC;NICD1 tumors displayed a 
combined HCC-CCA phenotype with temporal plasticity. At early time-points, 
histology was predominantly cholangiocellular, which then progressed to mainly 
hepatocellular. The hepatocellular component was enriched in mesenchymal genes 
and gave rise to lung metastasis. Metastatic cells were enriched in the TGFB and 
VEGF pathways and their inhibition significantly reduced the metastatic burden. 
Our novel mouse model uncovered NOTCH1 as a driver of temporal plasticity and 
metastasis in HCC, the latter of which is, in part, mediated by angiogenesis and 
TGFß pathways.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.10.23.619856
PMCID: PMC11527037
PMID: 39484457

PMID: 39484404
Abstract: 1. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Oct 21:2024.10.17.618926. doi: 
10.1101/2024.10.17.618926.

Expression-Driven Genetic Dependency Reveals Targets for Precision Medicine.

Elmas A, Layden HM, Ellis JD, Bartlett LN, Zhao X, Kawabata-Iwakawa R, Obinata 
H, Hiebert SW, Huang KL.

Cancer cells are heterogeneous, each harboring distinct molecular aberrations 
and are dependent on different genes for their survival and proliferation. While 
successful targeted therapies have been developed based on driver DNA mutations, 
many patient tumors lack druggable mutations and have limited treatment options. 
Here, we hypothesize that new precision oncology targets may be identified 
through "expression-driven dependency", whereby cancer cells with high 
expression of a targeted gene are more vulnerable to the knockout of that gene. 
We introduce a Bayesian approach, BEACON, to identify such targets by jointly 
analyzing global transcriptomic and proteomic profiles with genetic dependency 
data of cancer cell lines across 17 tissue lineages. BEACON identifies known 
druggable genes, e.g., BCL2, ERBB2, EGFR, ESR1, MYC , while revealing new 
targets confirmed by both mRNA- and protein-expression driven dependency. 
Notably, the identified genes show an overall 3.8-fold enrichment for approved 
drug targets and enrich for druggable oncology targets by 7 to 10-fold. We 
experimentally validate that the depletion of GRHL2 , TP63 , and PAX5 
effectively reduce tumor cell growth and survival in their dependent cells. 
Overall, we present the catalog of express-driven dependency targets as a 
resource for identifying novel therapeutic targets in precision oncology.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.10.17.618926
PMCID: PMC11527036
PMID: 39484404

PMID: 39488840
Abstract: 1. Plant Biotechnol J. 2024 Nov 3. doi: 10.1111/pbi.14501. Online ahead of print.

Wheat TaPYL9-involved signalling pathway impacts plant drought response through 
regulating distinct osmotic stress-associated physiological indices.

Zhang Y(1)(2), Zhao Y(1)(2)(3), Hou X(1)(2), Zhang C(1)(2), Wang Z(1)(2), Zhang 
J(1)(2), Liu X(1)(2), Shi X(1)(2), Duan W(1)(2), Xiao K(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of North China Crop Improvement and Regulation, Baoding, 
Hebei, China.
(2)College of Agronomy, Agricultural University of Hebei, Baoding, Hebei, China.
(3)Hebei Key Laboratory of Crop Cultivation Physiology and Green Production, 
Institute of Cereal and Oil Crops, Hebei Academy of Agriculture and Forestry 
Sciences, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China.

The abscisic acid (ABA) signalling pathway plays a crucial role in plants' 
response to drought stress. In this study, we aimed to characterize the impact 
of an ABA signalling module, which consisted of TaPYL9 and its downstream 
partners in Triticum aestivum, on plant drought adaptation. Our results showed 
that TaPYL9 protein contains conserved motifs and targets plasma membrane and 
nucleus after being sorted by the endoplasmic reticulum. In addition, TaPYL9 
transcripts in both roots and leaves were significantly upregulated in response 
to drought stress. We conducted glucuronidase (GUS) histochemical staining 
analysis for transgenic plants carrying a truncated TaPYL9 promoter, which 
suggested that cis-elements associate with ABA and drought response, such as 
ABRE, DRE and recognition sites MYB and MYC, regulating the gene transcription 
under drought conditions. Using protein interaction assays (i.e., yeast 
two-hybrid, bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC), 
co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and in vitro pull-down), we demonstrated 
interactions between the intermediate segment of TaPYL9, the intermediate 
segment of TaPP2C6, the N-terminus of TaSnRK2.8 and the C-terminus of the 
transcription factor TabZIP1 in wheat, indicating the involvement of TaPYL9 in 
the constitution of an ABA signalling module, namely 
TaPYL9/TaPP2C6/TaSnRK2.8/TabZIP1. Transgene analysis revealed that TaPYL9, 
TaSnRK2.8 and TabZIP1 positively regulated drought response, while TaPP2C6 
negatively regulated it, and that these genes were closely associated with the 
regulation of stomata movement, osmolyte accumulation and ROS homeostasis. 
Electrophoretic mobility shift (EMSA) and transcriptioal activation assays 
indicated that TabZIP1 interacted promoters of TaP5CS2, TaSLAC1-1 and TaCAT2 and 
activated transcription of these genes, which regulated proline biosynthesis, 
stomata movement and ROS scavenging upon drought signalling, respectively. 
Furthermore, we found that the transcripts of TaPYL9 and stress-responsive genes 
were positively correlated with yields in wheat cultivars under field drought 
conditions. Altogether, our findings suggest that the TaPYL9-involved signalling 
pathway significantly regulates drought response by modulating osmotic 
stress-associated physiological processes in T. aestivum.

© 2024 The Author(s). Plant Biotechnology Journal published by Society for 
Experimental Biology and The Association of Applied Biologists and John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/pbi.14501
PMID: 39488840

PMID: 39487760
Abstract: 1. Cancer Biol Ther. 2024 Dec 31;25(1):2420383. doi:
10.1080/15384047.2024.2420383.  Epub 2024 Nov 2.

GdX inhibits the occurrence and progression of breast cancer by negatively 
modulating the activity of STAT3.

Chen Z(1)(2), Xu L(3), Lin S(4), Huang H(2), Long Q(2), Liu J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical 
University, Dalian, Liaoning, China.
(2)Department of Breast Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Hainan Medical 
University, Haikou, Hainan, China.
(3)Department of Hematology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Hainan Medical 
University, Haikou, Hainan, China.
(4)Department of Ultrasound, Hainan Women and Children's Medical Center, Haikou, 
Hainan, China.

AIM: To elucidate the biological functionality and regulatory mechanisms of GdX 
in breast cancer (BC).
METHODS: The examination of GdX expression in human BC tissues and cell lines 
was conducted through immunohistochemical (IHC) and Western blot. Cell 
proliferation capacity was assessed via the CCK-8 and colony formation assay, 
while cell migration was determined through the wound healing assay. The 
expression levels of BCL-XL, Cyclin D1, and C-myc gene were quantified using 
RT-qPCR and Western blot. In vivo tumor growth was evaluated in nude mice 
xenografted with MDA-MB-231 cells overexpressing GdX, and a mouse model with 
GdX-deficient BC was established to observe the impact of GdX on BC formation 
and metastasis. Dual-luciferase reporter assay and immunofluorescence were 
employed to confirm the interaction between GdX and STAT3. Western blot was 
employed to validate the influence of GdX overexpression on the phosphorylation 
process of STAT3.
RESULTS: GdX exhibited low expression in the cancer tissues of BC patients and 
cell lines. MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7 cells overexpressing GdX displayed a notable 
reduction in proliferation and diminished migratory capabilities, accompanied by 
downregulated mRNA and protein expression of BCL-XL, Cyclin D1, and C-myc. In 
the xenograft mouse model, heightened GdX expression correlated with a 
decelerated in vivo tumor growth. Furthermore, in mice deteleing GdX, both the 
quantity and weight of tumors increased, along with evident pulmonary 
metastasis. Mechanistically, STAT3 emerged as a downstream target gene of GdX.
CONCLUSIONS: GdX exerts its inhibitory effects on the initiation and progression 
of BC by negatively modulating the phosphorylation of STAT3.

DOI: 10.1080/15384047.2024.2420383
PMCID: PMC11540090
PMID: 39487760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).

PMID: 39486583
Abstract: 1. Adv Med Sci. 2024 Oct 30:S1896-1126(24)00061-0. doi: 
10.1016/j.advms.2024.10.004. Online ahead of print.

Recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma is associated with the enrichment of MYC 
targets gene sets, elevated high confidence deleterious mutations and 
alternative splicing of DDB2 and BRCA1 transcripts.

Karaosmanoğlu O(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Kamil Özdağ Faculty of Science, Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey 
University, İbrahim Öktem Avenue, No. 124, 70200, Karaman, Türkiye. Electronic 
address: oguzhankaraosmanoglu@windowslive.com.

PURPOSE: Recurrence is the main cause of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) related 
deaths. Underlying recurrence biology can be better understood by comparative 
analysis of the complete set of transcripts between recurrent and non-recurrent 
HCC. In this study, transcriptomic data (GSE56545) from 21 male patients 
diagnosed with either recurrent or non-recurrent HCC were reanalyzed to identify 
deregulated pathways, somatic mutations, fusion transcripts, alternative 
splicing events, and the immune context in recurrent HCC.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: DESeq2 was used for differential expression analysis, 
Mutect2 for somatic mutation analysis, Arriba and STAR-Fusion for fusion 
transcript analysis, and rMATs for alternative splicing analysis.
RESULTS: The results revealed that MYC targets gene sets 
(Hallmark_MYC_targets_V1 and Hallmark_MYC_targets_V2) were significantly 
enriched in recurrent HCC. Among the MYC targets, CBX3, NOP56, CDK4, NPM1, MCM5, 
MCM4 and PA2G4 upregulation was significantly associated with poor survival. 
Somatic mutation analysis demonstrated that the numbers of high confidence 
deleterious mutations were significantly increased in recurrent HCC. Alternative 
splicing-mediated production of non-functional DDB2 and oncogenic BRCA1 D11q 
were discovered in recurrent HCC. Finally, CD8+ T-cells were significantly 
decreased in recurrent HCC.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicated that the enrichment of MYC targets gene 
sets is one of the most critical factors that leads to the development of 
recurrent HCC. In addition, elevated deleterious mutation numbers and 
alternative spliced DDB2 and BRCA1 isoforms have been identified as prominent 
contributors to increasing genomic instability in male patients with recurrent 
HCC.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.advms.2024.10.004
PMID: 39486583

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

PMID: 39507413
Abstract: 1. JTO Clin Res Rep. 2024 Aug 29;5(12):100714. doi: 10.1016/j.jtocrr.2024.100714.
 eCollection 2024 Dec.

Rearranged During Transfection Rearrangement Detection by Fluorescence In Situ 
Hybridization Compared With Other Techniques in NSCLC.

Mc Leer A(1)(2)(3), Mondet J(1)(2)(3), Magnat N(2), Mersch M(1)(2), Giovannini 
D(2)(4), Emprou C(2)(3), Toffart AC(1)(3)(5), Sturm N(1)(2)(4), Lantuéjoul 
S(1)(6), Benito D(7).

Author information:
(1)Université Grenoble Alpes, Grenoble, France.
(2)Service d'Anatomie et Cytologie Pathologiques, Pôle de Biologie et 
Pathologie, CHU Grenoble Alpes, Grenoble, France.
(3)Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Université Grenoble Alpes, Grenoble, 
France.
(4)TIMC-IMAG, Université Grenoble-Alpes, La Tronche, France.
(5)Clinique Hospitalo-Universitaire de Pneumologie Physiologie, Pôle Thorax et 
Vaisseaux, CHU Grenoble Alpes, Grenoble, France.
(6)Cancer Research Center Lyon, Centre Léon Bérard, Lyon, France.
(7)Medical Affairs - Oncology, Eli Lilly (Suisse) S.A., Dubai, United Arab 
Emirates.

INTRODUCTION: RET rearrangements occur in 1% to 2% NSCLCs. Since no clinically 
validated RET antibody is currently available, fluorescence in situ 
hybridization (FISH) is often used as a screening tool to identify patients 
likely to benefit from RET-targeted therapy. In this study, we performed a 
comprehensive review of publications in which RET-rearrangement testing was 
performed by FISH and compared the methods and results with our data.
METHODS: The findings of an electronic search for publications using RET-FISH in 
lung cancer were compared with the results obtained at the Grenoble University 
Hospital where 784 EGFR -, KRAS -, ALK-, and ROS1-negative NSCLCs were tested by 
RET break-apart FISH and confirmed by RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq).
RESULTS: Out of the 85 publications using RET-FISH analysis, 52 pertained to 
patients with lung cancer. The most often used positivity threshold was 15%. Six 
publications compared RET-FISH with at least one other molecular technique on at 
least eight samples, and the concordance was variable, from 5.9% to 66.7% for 
FISH-positive cases. Regarding our data, out of the 784 analyzed samples, 32 
(4%) were positive by RET-FISH. The concordance between RET-FISH and RNA-seq in 
RET-FISH positive samples was 69%.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, both existing literature and our data suggest that 
RET-FISH testing can be used for rapid screening of RET rearrangements in NSCLC. 
Nevertheless, using an orthogonal technique such as RNA-seq to confirm 
RET-FISH-positive cases is essential for ensuring that only patients likely to 
benefit from RET-target therapy receive the treatment.

© 2024 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtocrr.2024.100714
PMCID: PMC11539407
PMID: 39507413

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Mc Leer has declared consulting fees from 
10.13039/100015756Janssen-Cilag, Eli Lilly, Takeda, JFR Access, Pfizer, payment 
for presentations from Amgen, AstraZeneca, Cancerodigest, Edimark, Janssen-Cilag 
and support for attending meetings from Amgen, AstraZeneca, Janssen-Cilag, 
Pfizer. Dr. Toffart has declared consulting fees from 
10.13039/100004325AstraZeneca, 10.13039/100002491Bristol-Myers Squibb, 
10.13039/100002429Amgen, 10.13039/501100014382Ipsen, Janssen, 
10.13039/100009947Merck Sharp & Dohme, 10.13039/100004319Pfizer, 
10.13039/100004337Roche, Sanofi, Takeda, payment for presentations from 
AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Amgen, Ipsen, Janssen, Merck Sharp & Dohme, 
Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi, Takeda, payment for expert testimony from AstraZeneca, 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Amgen, Ipsen, Janssen, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Pfizer, Roche, 
Sanofi, Takeda and support for attending meetings from AstraZeneca, Pfizer, 
Roche, Takeda. Dr. Benito is a full-time employee at Eli Lilly Co. The remaining 
authors declare no conflict of interest.

PMID: 39507054
Abstract: 1. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2024 Oct 23;15:1448119. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2024.1448119. eCollection 2024.

Deciphering the role of lipid metabolism-related genes in Alzheimer's disease: a 
machine learning approach integrating Traditional Chinese Medicine.

Wu K(1), Liu Q(1), Long K(1), Duan X(1), Chen X(1), Zhang J(1), Li L(1), Li 
B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Hospital of Chengdu University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, Sichuan, China.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) represents a progressive neurodegenerative 
disorder characterized by the accumulation of misfolded amyloid beta protein, 
leading to the formation of amyloid plaques and the aggregation of tau protein 
into neurofibrillary tangles within the cerebral cortex. The role of 
carbohydrates, particularly apolipoprotein E (ApoE), is pivotal in AD 
pathogenesis due to its involvement in lipid and cholesterol metabolism, and its 
status as a genetic predisposition factor for the disease. Despite its 
significance, the mechanistic contributions of Lipid Metabolism-related Genes 
(LMGs) to AD remain inadequately elucidated. This research endeavor seeks to 
bridge this gap by pinpointing biomarkers indicative of early-stage AD, with an 
emphasis on those linked to immune cell infiltration. To this end, advanced 
machine-learning algorithms and data derived from the Gene Expression Omnibus 
(GEO) database have been employed to facilitate the identification of these 
biomarkers.
METHODS: Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by comparing gene 
expression profiles between healthy individuals and Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
patients, using data from two Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets: GSE5281 
and GSE138260. Functional enrichment analysis was conducted to elucidate the 
biological relevance of the DEGs. To ensure the reliability of the results, 
samples were randomly divided into training and validation sets. The analysis 
focused on lipid metabolism-related DEGs (LMDEGs) to explore potential 
biomarkers for AD. Machine learning algorithms, including Support Vector 
Machine-Recursive Feature Elimination (SVM-RFE) and the Least Absolute Shrinkage 
and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression model, were applied to identify a key 
gene biomarker. Additionally, immune cell infiltration and its relationship with 
the gene biomarker were assessed using the CIBERSORT algorithm. The Integrated 
Traditional Chinese Medicine (ITCM) database was also referenced to identify 
Chinese medicines related to lipid metabolism and their possible connection to 
AD. This comprehensive strategy aims to integrate modern computational methods 
with traditional medicine to deepen our understanding of AD and its underlying 
mechanisms.
RESULTS: The study identified 137 genes from a pool of 751 lipid 
metabolism-related genes (LMGs) significantly associated with autophagy and 
immune response mechanisms. Through the application of LASSO and SVM-RFE 
machine-learning techniques, four genes-choline acetyl transferase (CHAT), 
member RAS oncogene family (RAB4A), acyl-CoA binding domain-containing protein 6 
(ACBD6), and alpha-galactosidase A (GLA)-emerged as potential biomarkers for 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). These genes demonstrated strong therapeutic potential 
due to their involvement in critical biological pathways. Notably, nine Chinese 
medicine compounds were identified to target these marker genes, offering a 
novel treatment approach for AD. Further, ceRNA network analysis revealed 
complex regulatory interactions involving these genes, underscoring their 
importance in AD pathology. CIBERSORT analysis highlighted a potential link 
between changes in the immune microenvironment and CHAT expression levels in AD 
patients, providing new insights into the immunological dimensions of the 
disease.
CONCLUSION: The discovery of these gene markers offers substantial promise for 
the diagnosis and understanding of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, further 
investigation is necessary to validate their clinical utility. This study 
illuminates the role of Lipid Metabolism-related Genes (LMGs) in AD 
pathogenesis, offering potential targets for therapeutic intervention. It 
enhances our grasp of AD's complex mechanisms and paves the way for future 
research aimed at refining diagnostic and treatment strategies.

Copyright © 2024 Wu, Liu, Long, Duan, Chen, Zhang, Li and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2024.1448119
PMCID: PMC11538058
PMID: 39507054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

PMID: 39507018
Abstract: 1. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2024 Oct 31;13(10):2660-2672. doi:
10.21037/tlcr-24-339.  Epub 2024 Oct 28.

SWItch/Sucrose Nonfermentable complex-deficient pulmonary neoplasms: 
clinicopathologic characteristics and outcomes to radiotherapy and 
immunotherapy.

Gu Y(#)(1)(2)(3)(4), Lai S(#)(1)(2)(3)(4), Yang J(#)(5), Zhang J(1)(2)(3)(4), 
Fan X(1)(2)(3)(4), Zheng Q(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Shanghai Cancer Center, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Oncology, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.
(3)Shanghai Clinical Research Center for Radiation Oncology, Shanghai, China.
(4)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Radiation Oncology, Shanghai, China.
(5)Xiaogan Hospital Affiliated to Wuhan University of Science and Technology, 
Xiaogan, China.
(6)Department of Pathology, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, Shanghai, 
China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The SWItch/Sucrose Nonfermentable (SWI/SNF) complex, a multi-subunit 
chromatin remodeler, is linked to aggressive tumors when deficient. Accurate 
identification of SWI/SNF expression status is crucial for tailoring targeted 
therapies. Previous studies on the efficacy of immunotherapy for 
SWI/SNF-deficient (SWI/SNF-d) pulmonary tumors primarily focus on non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC), with limited data on other modalities like radiotherapy. 
This study aims to analyze the clinicopathological characteristics and 
prognostic factors of SWI/SNF-d pulmonary neoplasms, including NSCLC and 
undifferentiated tumors, and to evaluate the effectiveness of radiotherapy and 
immunotherapy, providing a foundation for improved treatment strategies and 
prognostic assessments.
METHODS: Patient data on SWI/SNF-d pulmonary neoplasms were collected from Fudan 
University Shanghai Cancer Center, assessing ARID1A, SMARCA2, SMARCA4, and 
SMARCB1 subunit expression via immunohistochemistry, with retrospective analysis 
of survival and treatment results.
RESULTS: The study analyzed 101 SWI/SNF-d pulmonary neoplasms from 675 SWI/SNF-d 
cancer patients (January 2017 to August 2023), mostly male smokers, showing high 
malignancy. Clinicopathologic features were consistent across patients with 
various SWI/SNF subunit deficiencies. TP53 was the most common co-mutated gene 
(71%), followed by STK11, CDKN2A, KRAS, APC, and EGFR. Key prognostic factors 
for overall survival (OS) were distant metastasis, radiotherapy, and 
immunotherapy. Immunotherapy improved 3-year OS rates from 20.8% to 68.4% 
(P<0.001). KRAS-mutated patients on immunotherapy showed a lower 1-year survival 
rate (60.0% vs. 83.1%, P=0.08). Radiotherapy increased 3-year OS rates to 61.7% 
from 30.7% (P=0.012). Of 38 patients treated with immunotherapy, 16 benefited 
from radiotherapy [median OS: 31.4 months vs. not estimable (NE), P=0.045], with 
an average 17.2 days between radiotherapy and immunotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: SWI/SNF-d pulmonary neoplasms, whether with multiple or single 
subunit losses, exhibit similar clinicopathological characteristics. 
Radiotherapy and immunotherapy are effective treatments for these patients, and 
the combination of radiotherapy with immunotherapy may offer synergistic 
effects.

2024 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/tlcr-24-339
PMCID: PMC11535837
PMID: 39507018

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
https://tlcr.amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/tlcr-24-339/coif). The authors 
have no conflicts of interest to declare.

PMID: 39506990
Abstract: 1. Physiol Mol Biol Plants. 2024 Oct;30(10):1631-1642. doi: 
10.1007/s12298-024-01517-7. Epub 2024 Oct 17.

Arabidopsis GDH1 and GDH2 genes double knock-out results in a stay-green 
phenotype during dark-induced senescence.

Garnik EY(1), Vilyanen DV(1)(2), Vlasova AA(1)(3), Tarasenko VI(1), Konstantinov 
YM(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Siberian Institute of Plant Physiology and Biochemistry SB RAS, Lermontova 
Str. 132, Irkutsk, Russia 664033.
(2)Present Address: Institute of Basic Biological Problems RAS, Federal Research 
Center, Pushchino Scientific Center for Biological Research RAS, Prospekt Nauki 
3, Pushchino, Moscow Region, Russia 142290.
(3)Present Address: Irkutsk State University, Karl Marx Str. 1, Irkutsk, Russia 
664003.

Yellowing is the first visually observable sign of plant leaf senescence. We 
found that Arabidopsis double knockout mutant gdh1gdh2 for genes of 
NAD(H)-dependent glutamate dehydrogenase retains green color of the leaves 
(stay-green phenotype) during a dark-induced senescence, in contrast to 
wild-type plants, whose leaves turn yellow. When the gdh1gdh2 plants are exposed 
to the dark more than four days, they demonstrate slower chlorophyll degradation 
than in the wild-type plants under the same conditions, as well as dysregulation 
of chlorophyll breakdown genes encoding chlorophyll b reductase, Mg-dechelatase, 
pheophytinase and pheophorbide a oxygenase. The slowed degradation of 
chlorophyll b in gdh1gdh2 plants significantly alters the chlorophyll a/b ratio. 
Ion leakage in the mutant plants increases significantly from four to eight days 
in the darkness, correlating with their premature death during this period. The 
discovered facts suggest a functional connection between activity of 
NAD(H)-dependent glutamate dehydrogenase and dark-induced senescence progress in 
Arabidopsis.

© Prof. H.S. Srivastava Foundation for Science and Society 2024. Springer Nature 
or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this 
article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other 
rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of 
this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and 
applicable law.

DOI: 10.1007/s12298-024-01517-7
PMCID: PMC11534964
PMID: 39506990

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare that 
they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that 
could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

PMID: 39506316
Abstract: 1. J Dairy Res. 2024 Nov 7:1-3. doi: 10.1017/S0022029924000554. Online ahead of 
print.

Transcriptomic analysis reveals that prolactin modulates the β-casein synthesis 
mechanism in bovine mammary epithelial cells.

Zhang Y(1), Xu Z(1), Wang X(1), Hou X(1), Yang Y(1), Liu Y(1), Lin Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Cellular and Genetics Engineering of Heilongjiang 
Province, Northeast Agricultural University, Harbin 150030, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Dairy Science of Education Ministry, Northeast Agricultural 
University, Harbin 150030, China.

This research communication screened and identified differentiated expressed 
genes in bovine mammary epithelial cells (BMECs) upon prolactin (PRL) 
stimulation. PRL of 5 μg/ml increased β-casein synthesis in BMECs with milk 
protein synthesis capacity. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was used to screen 
differentially expressed genes (DEGs). A total of 375 DEGs (165 up-regulated and 
210 down-regulated) were identified between PRL-stimulated group and the control 
group. Gene ontology enrichment analysis showed that the up-regulated genes were 
primarily associated with cell functions, metabolic processes, and biological 
regulatory processes. Pathway enrichment analysis showed that the up-regulated 
genes were mainly enriched in JAK-STAT, Rap1, Ras and Notch signaling pathways, 
which are widely involved in cell proliferation, differentiation and milk 
component synthesis. This study provides an initial understanding of the changes 
in gene expression in BMECs with PRL-stimulation, as determined by RNA-seq 
transcriptomic analysis, thereby enhancing our knowledge of the molecular 
regulation of lactation metabolism.

DOI: 10.1017/S0022029924000554
PMID: 39506316

PMID: 39501138
Abstract: 1. Mol Med. 2024 Nov 5;30(1):199. doi: 10.1186/s10020-024-00972-y.

MGST1 facilitates novel KRAS(G12D) inhibitor resistance in KRAS(G12D)-mutated 
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma by inhibiting ferroptosis.

Xu C(#)(1)(2), Lin W(#)(3), Zhang Q(#)(1)(2), Ma Y(1)(2), Wang X(1)(2), Guo 
A(1)(2), Zhu G(1)(2), Zhou Z(1)(2), Song W(1)(2), Zhao Z(4), Jiao Y(1)(2), Wang 
X(5)(6), Du C(7).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Oncology, National Cancer Center/National 
Clinical Research Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 100021, China.
(2)Institute of Cancer Research, Henan Academy of Innovations in Medical 
Science, Zhengzhou, Henan, 450000, China.
(3)Department of Thoracic Surgery, National Cancer Center/National Clinical 
Research Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences 
and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 100021, China.
(4)Harrow international School Shenzhen Qianhai, Shenzhen, 518000, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Oncology, National Cancer Center/National 
Clinical Research Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 100021, China. 
wangxb@cicams.ac.cn.
(6)Institute of Cancer Research, Henan Academy of Innovations in Medical 
Science, Zhengzhou, Henan, 450000, China. wangxb@cicams.ac.cn.
(7)Department of Medical Oncology, National Cancer Center/National Clinical 
Research Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences 
and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 100021, China. retinadcx@vip.163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly lethal cancer 
with a low 5-year survival rate. Treatment options for PDAC patients are 
limited. Recent studies have shown promising results with MRTX1133, a KRASG12D 
inhibitor that demonstrated potent antitumor activity in various types of tumors 
with KRASG12D mutation. Resistance to KRAS inhibitors is frequently occurred and 
one of the main reasons for treatment failure. Understanding resistance 
mechanisms to novel KRAS inhibitors is crucial to ensure sustained and durable 
remissions.
METHODS: Two KRASG12D inhibitor MRTX1133-resistant PDAC cell lines were 
established in vitro. The resistance mechanisms to KRASG12D inhibitor MRTX1133 
against PDAC in vitro and in vivo were characterized by RNA sequencing, reverse 
transcript polymerase chain reaction, cytotoxicity test, plasmid transfection, 
lentivirus transfection, lipid peroxidation detection, malondialdehyde levels 
detection, glutathione levels detection, western blot, immunofluorescence, nude 
mice tumorigenesis experiment and immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: The bioinformatics analysis and transcriptome sequencing showed that 
ferroptosis was involved in the resistant effect of the KRASG12D inhibitor 
treatment, and MGST1 was the key molecule against MRTX1133-induced ferroptosis. 
Increased expression of MGST1 weakened the cytotoxicity of MRTX1133 by 
inhibiting lipid peroxidation-induced ferroptosis in KRASG12D 
inhibitor-resistant PDAC cells. Knockdown or overexpression of MGST1 conferred 
sensitivity or resistance to KRASG12D inhibitor MRTX1133, respectively. 
Mechanismly, increased nuclear localization and higher levels of active 
β-catenin were observed in MRTX1133-resistant PDAC cells, which contributed to 
higher MGST1 expression. Knockdown of CTNNB1 or TCF4 can decreased MGST1 
expression. Additionally, we found that PKF-118-310, an antagonist of 
β-catenin/Tcf4 complex, repressed MGST1 expression. In both in vitro and in vivo 
models, a synergistic effect was observed when combining MRTX1133 and 
PKF-118-310 in KRASG12D inhibitor MRTX1133-resistant PDAC cells and tumors.
CONCLUSION: Our data showed that KRASG12D inhibitor MRTX1133 combined with 
PKF-118-310 could enhance the effectiveness of MRTX1133 treatment response 
through induction of ferroptosis via inhibiting MGST1 expression in 
MRTX1133-resistant PDAC cells and tumors. This evidence may provide a promising 
strategy to overcome KRASG12D inhibitor MRTX1133 resistance in PDAC patients 
with KRASG12D mutations.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s10020-024-00972-y
PMID: 39501138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

PMID: 39497720
Abstract: 1. Front Oncol. 2024 Oct 21;14:1470827. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1470827.
eCollection  2024.

The potential role of next-generation sequencing in identifying MET 
amplification and disclosing resistance mechanisms in NSCLC patients with 
osimertinib resistance.

Xiao X(1)(2), Xu R(1)(2), Lu J(3), Xin B(2), Wang C(2), Zhu K(2), Zhang H(4), 
Chen X(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Physics, Changchun University of Science and Technology, Changchun, 
China.
(2)Research & Development Department, Shanghai Rightongene Biotechnology Co., 
Ltd., Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Shanghai Chest 
Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(4)School of Life Science and Technology, Changchun University of Science and 
Technology, Changchun, China.

PURPOSES: Osimertinib, one of the third-generation EGFR-tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors (TKIs) designed to target EGFR T790M mutation, significantly improves 
the prognosis of lung cancer. However, drug resistance still happens and MET 
amplification is responsible for one of the main causes. Fluorescence in situ 
hybridization (FISH) is the gold standard for MET amplification detection, but 
fundamentally limited by observer subjectivity. Herein, we assessed the value of 
next-generation sequencing (NGS) method in MET amplification detection in 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), as well as revealed the mutation profiling 
of NSCLC patients with osimertinib resistance to provide some valuable clues to 
the mechanisms of resistance.
METHODS: A total of 317 cancer tissue samples from 317 NSCLC patients at time of 
progression following osimertinib were submitted to NGS and only 96 tissues were 
tested by FISH simultaneously. With FISH results as gold standard, enumeration 
algorithm was applied to establish the optimal model for identifying MET 
amplification using gene copy number (GCN) data.
RESULTS: The optimal model for identifying MET amplification was constructed 
based on the GCN of MET, BRAF, CDK6 and CYP3A4, which achieved a 74.0% overall 
agreement with FISH and performed well in identifying MET amplification except 
polysomy with a sensitivity of 85.7% and a specificity of 93.9%. The 
inconsistency between NGS and FISH occurred mainly in polysomy subtype, while 
MET GCN ≥ 5 could be reliably recognized by NGS. Moreover, the most frequently 
mutated genes in NSCLC patients with osimertinib resistance were EGFR (59.94%), 
followed by TP53 (43.85%), NRG1 (9.46%), PIK3CA (6.31%), and ATM (5.36%). The 
known resistance mechanisms, including MET amplification, EGFR (C797S, L718Q/R), 
TP53, CDK4, CDK6, CDKN2A, BRAF, KRAS, NRAS and PIK3CA mutations were also 
disclosed in our cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: NGS assay can achieve a high concordance with FISH in MET 
amplification detection and has advantages in portraying various genetic 
alterations, which is of worthy in clinical promotion.

Copyright © 2024 Xiao, Xu, Lu, Xin, Wang, Zhu, Zhang and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1470827
PMCID: PMC11532092
PMID: 39497720

Conflict of interest statement: Author XX, RX, BX, CW, and KZ were employed by 
the company Shanghai Rightongene Biotechnology Co., Ltd. The remaining authors 
declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or 
financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest.

PMID: 39497713
Abstract: 1. Front Oncol. 2024 Oct 21;14:1435537. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1435537.
eCollection  2024.

Comprehensive liquid biopsy analysis for monitoring NSCLC patients under 
second-line osimertinib treatment.

Ntzifa A(1), Marras T(1), Kallergi G(2), Kotsakis A(3), Georgoulias V(4), 
Lianidou E(1).

Author information:
(1)Analysis of Circulating Tumor Cells Lab, Lab of Analytical Chemistry, 
Department of Chemistry, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, 
Greece.
(2)Laboratory of Biochemistry/Metastatic Signaling, Section of Genetics, Cell 
Biology and Development, Department of Biology, University of Patras, Patras, 
Greece.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, General University Hospital of Larissa, 
Larissa, Greece.
(4)First Department of Medical Oncology, Metropolitan General Hospital of 
Athens, Cholargos, Greece.

BACKGROUND: The heterogeneous and complex genetic landscape of NSCLC impacts the 
clinical outcomes of patients who will eventually develop resistance to 
osimertinib. Liquid biopsy (LB) analysis as a minimally invasive approach is a 
key step to efficiently identify resistance mechanisms and adjust to proper 
subsequent treatments.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In the present study, we combined plasma-cfDNA and CTC 
analysis from 30 NSCLC patients in samples collected before treatment and at the 
progression of disease (PD). We detected molecular alterations at the DNA 
mutation (EGFR, PIK3CA, KRAS G12C, BRAF V600E), DNA methylation (RASSF1A, BRMS1, 
FOXA1, SLFN1, SHISA3, RARβ,, WIF-1, RASSF10 and APC), gene expression (CK-19, 
CK-18, CK-8, AXL, TWIST-1, PD-L1, PIM-1, Vimentin, ALDH-1, and B2M) and 
chromosomal level (HER2 and MET amplification) as possible resistance mechanisms 
and druggable targets. We also studied the expression of PD-L1 in single CTCs 
using immunofluorescence.
RESULTS: In some cases, T790M resistance EGFR mutation was detected at baseline 
in CTCs but not in the corresponding plasma cfDNA. PIK3CA mutations were 
detected only in plasma-cfDNA but not in corresponding CTCs. KRAS G12C and BRAF 
V600E mutations were not detected in the samples analyzed. MET amplification was 
detected in the CTCs of two patients before treatment whereas HER2 amplification 
was detected in the CTCs of three patients at baseline and in one patient at PD. 
DNA methylation analysis revealed low concordance between CTCs and cfDNA, 
indicating the complementary information obtained through parallel LB analysis. 
Results from gene expression analysis indicated high rates of vimentin-positive 
CTCs detected at all time points during osimertinib. Moreover, there was an 
increased number of NSCLC patients at PD harboring CTCs positive in PD-L1. AXL 
and PIM-1 expression detected in CTCs during treatment suggesting new possible 
therapeutic strategies.
DISCUSSION: Our results reveal that comprehensive liquid biopsy analysis can 
efficiently represent the heterogeneous molecular landscape and provide 
prominent information on subsequent treatments for NSCLC patients at PD since 
druggable molecular alterations were detected in CTCs.

Copyright © 2024 Ntzifa, Marras, Kallergi, Kotsakis, Georgoulias and Lianidou.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1435537
PMCID: PMC11532185
PMID: 39497713

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.

PMID: 39496981
Abstract: 1. Funct Integr Genomics. 2024 Nov 4;24(6):206. doi: 10.1007/s10142-024-01484-y.

Breast cancer genomic analyses reveal genes, mutations, and signaling networks.

Manjunath GK(1)(2), Sharma S(2), Nashier D(1)(2), Vasanthaiah S(1)(2), Jha S(2), 
Bage S(3), Mitra T(1)(2), Goyal P(3), Neerathilingam M(1)(2), Kumar A(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal, 576104, Karnataka, 
India.
(2)Institute of Bioinformatics, International Technology Park, Whitefield, 
Bangalore, 560066, Karnataka, India.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, School of Life Sciences, Central University of 
Rajasthan, Ajmer, Rajasthan, India.
(4)Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal, 576104, Karnataka, 
India. abhishek@ibioinformatics.org.
(5)Institute of Bioinformatics, International Technology Park, Whitefield, 
Bangalore, 560066, Karnataka, India. abhishek@ibioinformatics.org.

Breast cancer (BC) is the most commonly diagnosed cancer and the predominant 
cause of death in women. BC is a complex disorder, and the exploration of 
several types of BC omic data, highlighting genes, perturbations, signaling and 
cellular mechanisms, is needed. We collected mutational data from 9,555 BC 
samples using cBioPortal. We classified 1174 BC genes (mutated ≥ 40 samples) 
into five tiers (BCtier_I-V) and subjected them to pathway and protein‒protein 
network analyses using EnrichR and STRING 11, respectively. BCtier_I possesses 
12 BC genes with mutational frequencies > 5%, with only 5 genes possessing > 10% 
frequencies, namely, PIK3CA (35.7%), TP53 (34.3%), GATA3 (11.5%), CDH1 (11.4%) 
and MUC16 (11%), and the next seven BC genes are KMT2C (8.8%), TTN (8%), MAP3K1 
(8%), SYNE1 (7.2%), AHNAK2 (7%), USH2A (5.5%), and RYR2 (5.4%). Our pathway 
analyses revealed that the five top BC pathways were the PI3K-AKT, TP53, NOTCH, 
HIPPO, and RAS pathways. We found that BC panels share only seven genes. These 
findings show that BC arises from genetic disruptions evident in BC signaling 
and protein networks.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10142-024-01484-y
PMID: 39496981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

PMID: 39496639
Abstract: 1. Sci Rep. 2024 Nov 4;14(1):26581. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-75208-4.

KRAS G12C mutation in NSCLC in a small genetic center: insights into sotorasib 
therapy response potential.

Eser M(1), Hekimoglu G(2), Yarar MH(1), Canbek S(1), Ozcelik M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, Umraniye Education and Research Hospital, 
University of Health Sciences, Istanbul, Turkey.
(2)Department of Histology and Embryology, Hamidiye International Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Health Sciences, Istanbul, Turkey. 
gulam.hekimoglu@sbu.edu.tr.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Umraniye Education and Research Hospital, 
University of Health Sciences, Istanbul, Turkey.

Lung cancer remains a significant health challenge, characterized by aberrant 
tissue growth within the pulmonary system. Early carcinogenic events often 
involve genomic instability and the emergence of a mutator phenotype. In this 
study, we aimed to explore the mutator phenotype in 89 patients diagnosed with 
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). RNA isolation from formalin-fixed 
paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue samples was performed using the Promega 
ReliaPrep RNA Miniprep System, facilitating gene amplification relevant to 
cancer through the Archer® FusionPlexComprehensiveThyroid and Lung (CTL) kit. 
Next-generation sequencing (NGS) on the Illumina NextSeq platform enabled 
comprehensive analysis of target areas. Utilizing Archer Analysis software, 
secondary analyses involving data cleansing, alignment, and variant/fusion 
identification were executed against the human reference genome hg19 (GRCh37). 
Expression patterns were visualized using HeatMap graphics. Our findings 
revealed a notable presence of KRAS gene mutations in approximately 20% of NSCLC 
patients. Among these mutations, the G12C variant was predominant at 50%, 
followed by G12V and G12D variants at 11.2% each. Notably, patients harboring 
the G12C variant responded favorably to sotorasib medication. These results 
underscore the importance of mutational profiling and targeted therapeutic 
approaches in managing NSCLC, particularly highlighting the promising efficacy 
of sotorasib in G12C-mutated cases.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-75208-4
PMCID: PMC11535051
PMID: 39496639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

PMID: 39495350
Abstract: 1. Mol Biol Rep. 2024 Nov 4;51(1):1120. doi: 10.1007/s11033-024-10047-0.

Clinical significance and potential mechanism of hsa_circ_0006892 in acute 
respiratory distress syndrome complicated with pulmonary fibrosis.

Zhang S(#)(1), Rong L(#)(2), Long G(3), Huang F(4), Zhang Q(4), Yang X(4), Sun 
H(4), Ji C(4), Ye RH(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Postdoctoral Station of Clinical Medicine, The 
Third Xiangya Hospital of Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, 410013, 
China.
(2)Wuhan University TaiKang Medical School (School of Basic Medical Sciences), 
Wuhan, Hubei Province, 430071, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Emergency, Guizhou Provincial People's Hospital, No. 83, 
Zhongshan East Road, Guiyang, Guizhou, 550002, China. Longguangwen7510@163.com.
(4)Department of Emergency, Guizhou Provincial People's Hospital, No. 83, 
Zhongshan East Road, Guiyang, Guizhou, 550002, China.
(5)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, No. 54, Youdian Road, 
Shangcheng District, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 310000, China. Yeruihai24@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a serious acute lung 
injury, and can develop into pulmonary fibrosis (PLF). Circular RNAs (circRNAs) 
regulatory network in ARDS is important. The study explored the role of 
hsa_circ_0006892 in the occurrence of ARDS and the development of PLF.
METHODS: Hsa_circ_0006892 levels were verified in serum samples of 203 ARDS 
patients with or without PLF, and the diagnostic value was evaluated through 
ROC. Cox regression analysis was performed to identify PLF-related factors. The 
downstream target genes were predicted online. The function and pathway of key 
genes were annotated through GO and KEGG pathway analysis. Protein-protein 
interaction (PPI) analysis was performed for the examination of protein 
interactions.
RESULTS: qRT-PCR determined the downregulation of hsa_circ_0006892 in the serum 
of both ARDS and PLF patients. Hsa_circ_0006892 can differentiate ARDS from 
controls, and independently related to the development of PLF. Nine targeted 
related miRNAs were integrated with dysregulated miRNAs from GSE27430 dataset. 
Clinically, miR-486-3p was the only miRNA that was significantly different in 
both ARDS and PLF groups, and was determined to be the target of 
hsa_circ_0006892. 180 target genes of miR-486-3p were predicted, which were 
integrated with ARDS and PLF-related GSE84439 and GSE38958 datasets. Go and KEGG 
pathway analysis identified Ras signaling pathway as the most commonly enriched 
pathway in the overlapped genes.
CONCLUSIONS: The present results identified the differentially expressed 
hsa_circ_0006892 in ARDS and PLF, and suggested a possible molecular mechanism 
of hsa_circ_0006892/miR-486-3p axis.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-024-10047-0
PMID: 39495350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

PMID: 39493897
Abstract: 1. Bioimpacts. 2024;14(6):30118. doi: 10.34172/bi.2024.30118. Epub 2024 Mar 2.

Association of tumour mutation burden with prognosis and its clinical 
significance in stage III gastric cancer.

Han YL(1)(2), Chen L(3), Wang XN(4), Xu ML(1), Qin R(5), Gong FM(1), Sun P(1), 
Liu HY(1), Teng ZP(1), Li ZX(2), Dai GH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, The First Medical Centre, Chinese PLA General 
Hospital, Beijing 100853, China.
(2)Department of Oncology, PLA Rocket Force Characteristic Medical Centre, 
Beijing 100088, China.
(3)Department of Oncology, Fifth Medical Center of Chinese PLA General Hospital, 
Beijing 100071, China.
(4)Department of General Surgery, The Air Force Hospital of Northern Theater 
PLA, Shenyang 110042, China.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology, The 305 Hospital of PLA, Beijing 100017, 
China.

INTRODUCTION: To explore the correlation between the tumour mutation burden 
(TMB) and prognosis and its clinical significance among patients with stage III 
gastric cancer (GC).
METHODS: Patients with stage III GC were divided into a high TMB and low TMB 
group in both a study cohort of 38 patients and the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) 
cohort of 173 patients. In the study cohort, next-generation sequencing was used 
to detect mutated GC genes and obtain TMB data. In the TCGA cohort, gene set 
enrichment analysis was performed, and the relationship between TMB, prognosis 
and clinicopathologic factors was analysed. Western blot and quantitative 
real-time polymerase chain reaction were used to detect the expression levels of 
both proteins and genes. Cell viability was measured using methyl thiazolyl 
tetrazolium and transwell cell assays.
RESULTS: Patients in the high TMB group had better overall survival (OS) rates 
than patients in the low TMB group for both cohorts and TMB was associated with 
age, mutation signature 1 and mutation signature 17. The Cox regression analysis 
revealed that age, not TMB, was an independent prognosis factor. Furthermore, 
genes with high-frequency mutations were significantly enriched in the RTK-RAS 
and Notch signalling pathways. The activation of these pathways was lower in the 
high TMB compared with the low TMB group, and the proliferation and migration 
abilities of GC cells showed a similar pattern in both TMB groups.
CONCLUSION: Patients in the high TMB group had better OS rates than patients in 
the low TMB group. Genes with high-frequency mutations were significantly 
enriched in the RTK-RAS and Notch pathways. Hence, TMB could serve as a 
prognosis biomarker with potential clinical significance.

© 2024 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.34172/bi.2024.30118
PMCID: PMC11530966
PMID: 39493897

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests in this work.

PMID: 39490649
Abstract: 1. Gene. 2024 Oct 26:149057. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2024.149057. Online ahead of 
print.

Analysis of rosmarinic acid synthase (RAS) gene family and functional study of 
SmRAS1/2/4 in Salvia miltiorrhiza.

Xin Y(1), Zhan H(1), Kang H(1), Li Q(1), Fu F(1), Han L(2), Hua W(3), Cao X(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education for Medicinal Resources and 
Natural Pharmaceutical Chemistry, National Engineering Laboratory for Resource 
Development of Endangered Crude Drugs in Northwest of China, Shaanxi Normal 
University, Xi'an 710119, China.
(2)College of Life Science and Food Engineering, Shaanxi Xueqian Normal 
University, Xi'an 710100, China.
(3)College of Life Science and Food Engineering, Shaanxi Xueqian Normal 
University, Xi'an 710100, China. Electronic address: huawenping@126.com.
(4)Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education for Medicinal Resources and 
Natural Pharmaceutical Chemistry, National Engineering Laboratory for Resource 
Development of Endangered Crude Drugs in Northwest of China, Shaanxi Normal 
University, Xi'an 710119, China. Electronic address: caoxiaoyan@snnu.edu.cn.

Rosmarinic acid synthase is an essential enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of 
rosmarinic acid (RA), which facilitates the coupling of phenylpropanoid and 
tyrosine-derived pathway products. Our study identified six SmRAS genes in 
Salvia miltiorrhiza, with SmRAS1 being the only one functionally characterized 
to date. Real-time quantitative PCR was employed to analyze the expression 
profiles of the SmRAS gene family, revealing that SmRAS1/2/4 are predominantly 
expressed in the roots, which are the medicinal components of S. miltiorrhiza. 
SmRAS2 and SmRAS4 exhibited significant responses to abscisic acid (ABA), 
gibberellin (GA3), and methyl jasmonate (MeJA) stimuli, while SmRAS1 had notable 
responses to GA3 and MeJA. β-glucuronidase (GUS) staining in transgenic 
Arabidopsis thaliana confirmed a spatiotemporal expression pattern of SmRAS1/2/4 
that was consistent with the qRT-PCR results. SmRAS1/2/4 are primarily localized 
to the cytoplasm and plasma membrane. Our findings suggested that the 
overexpressions of SmRAS1 or SmRAS4 led to increased levels of salvianolic acid 
B (SalB) and RA, with a concomitant decrease in the Danshensu (DSS) content, 
which served as a substrate. In contrast, RNA interference lines exhibited a 
downward trend in the content of these substances. Interestingly, no significant 
changes were detected in the SalB, RA, or DSS contents due to the overexpression 
of SmRAS2 or RNA interference lines. Collectively, our study demonstrated that 
SmRAS1 and SmRAS4 are key regulators of RA and SalB biosynthesis in S. 
miltiorrhiza, while SmRAS2's role appears less impactful, suggesting a complex 
regulatory network that influences the medicinal properties of this plant.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2024.149057
PMID: 39490649

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

PMID: 39489317
Abstract: 1. Dev Biol. 2024 Nov 1:S0012-1606(24)00251-3. doi: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2024.10.008. 
Online ahead of print.

The Pax transcription factor EGL-38 links EGFR signaling to assembly of a 
cell-type specific apical extracellular matrix in the Caenorhabditis elegans 
vulva.

Schmidt HF(1), Darwin CB(1), Sundaram MV(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of 
Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(2)Department of Genetics, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of 
Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. Electronic address: 
schmidth@pennmedicine.upenn.edu.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Sep 06:2024.09.04.611291. doi: 10.1101/2024.09.04.611291.

The surface of epithelial tissues is covered by an apical extracellular matrix 
(aECM). The aECMs of different tissues have distinct compositions to serve 
distinct functions, yet how a particular cell type assembles the proper aECM is 
not well understood. We used the cell-type specific matrix of the C. elegans 
vulva to investigate the connection between cell identity and matrix assembly. 
The vulva is an epithelial tube composed of seven cell types descending from 
EGFR/Ras-dependent (1˚) and Notch-dependent (2˚) lineages. Vulva aECM contains 
multiple Zona Pellucida domain (ZP) proteins, which are a common component of 
aECMs across life. ZP proteins LET-653 and CUTL-18 assemble on 1˚ cell surfaces, 
while NOAH-1 assembles on a subset of 2˚ surfaces. All three ZP genes are 
broadly transcribed, indicating that cell-type specific ZP assembly must be 
determined by features of the destination cell surface. The paired box (Pax) 
transcription factor EGL-38 promotes assembly of 1˚ matrix and prevents 
inappropriate assembly of 2˚ matrix, suggesting that EGL-38 promotes expression 
of one or more ZP matrix organizers. Our results connect the known signaling 
pathways and various downstream effectors to EGL-38/Pax expression and the ZP 
matrix component of vulva cell fate execution. We propose that dedicated 
transcriptional networks may contribute to cell-appropriate assembly of aECM in 
many epithelial organs.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2024.10.008
PMID: 39489317

PMID: 39484723
Abstract: 1. J Clin Invest. 2024 Nov 1;134(21):e184782. doi: 10.1172/JCI184782.

More T cell receptors to the RAScue in cancer?

Tran E.

Comment on
    Natural TCRs targeting KRASG12V display fine specificity and sensitivity to 
human solid tumors.

Treatment with T cells genetically engineered to express tumor-reactive T cell 
receptors (TCRs), known as TCR-gene therapy (TCR-T), is a promising 
immunotherapeutic approach for patients with cancer. The identification of 
optimal TCRs to use and tumor antigens to target are key considerations for 
TCR-T. In this issue of the JCI, Bear and colleagues report on their use of in 
vitro assays to characterize four HLA-A*03:01- or HLA-A*11:01-restricted TCRs 
targeting the oncogenic KRAS G12V mutation. The TCRs were derived from healthy 
donors or patients with pancreatic cancer who had received a vaccine against 
mutant KRAS. The most promising TCRs warrant testing in patients with KRAS 
G12V-positive cancers.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI184782
PMCID: PMC11527437
PMID: 39484723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: ET is a member of the 
scientific advisory board of Turnstone Biologics and a consultant for 
AstraZeneca and Pathfinder Oncology. ET received research funding from the Kuni 
Foundation. ET also is an inventor on patents “Anti-KRAS-G12D T cell receptors” 
(US 11,208,456); “Anti-KRAS-G12D T cell receptors” (US 11,897,933); 
“Anti-KRAS-G12D T cell receptors” (US 11,840,561); and pending patent 
“Anti-KRAS-G12D T cell receptors” (US20240209059).

PMID: 39483902
Abstract: 1. Res Sq [Preprint]. 2024 Oct 16:rs.3.rs-5263500. doi: 
10.21203/rs.3.rs-5263500/v1.

Targeting the Galectin-1/Ras Interaction for Treating Malignant Peripheral Nerve 
Sheath Tumors.

Wang HC, Torres K, Xia R, Malogolowkin M, Hsu SW, Chen CH, Shih TC.

Background: Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a common inherited neurological 
disorder that can lead to the development of malignant peripheral nerve sheath 
tumors (MPNSTs), a highly aggressive form of sarcoma. Current treatment options 
for MPNSTs are limited, with poor prognosis and high recurrence rates. This 
study aims to explore the potential of targeting the Galectin-1 (Gal-1) and Ras 
interaction as a novel therapeutic strategy for MPNSTs. Methods: Molecular 
docking simulations were conducted to identify specific residues involved in the 
Gal-1 and H-Ras(G12V) interaction. LLS30, a compound designed to target the Ras 
binding pocket on Gal-1, was developed and tested. The efficacy of LLS30 was 
evaluated through in vitro assays, including cell viability, apoptosis, and 
co-immunoprecipitation studies, as well as in vivo assays using orthotopic MPNST 
xenograft and experimental lung metastasis models. Transcriptome sequencing was 
performed to analyze the impact of LLS30 on gene expression and signaling 
pathways. Results: Molecular docking revealed key residues involved in the 
Gal-1/Ras interaction, and LLS30 was shown to bind to these residues, disrupting 
the interaction. LLS30 treatment resulted in Ras delocalization from the plasma 
membrane and suppression of the Ras/Erk signaling pathway. In vitro, LLS30 
significantly reduced MPNST cell proliferation and induced apoptosis. In vivo, 
LLS30 demonstrated potent anti-tumor activity, reducing tumor burden and 
metastasis while improving survival in animal models. Transcriptome analysis 
showed that LLS30 downregulates critical pathways, including KRAS signaling and 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Conclusions: Interference with the 
Gal-1/Ras interaction could lead to suppression of the Ras signaling pathway. 
LLS30 effectively disrupts the Gal-1/Ras interaction, resulting in significant 
anti-tumor and anti-metastatic effects in MPNST models. These findings indicated 
that targeting Gal-1 with LLS30 offers a promising therapeutic approach for 
treating MPNSTs and may also be applicable to other malignancies where Gal-1 and 
Ras are key oncogenic drivers.

DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-5263500/v1
PMCID: PMC11527268
PMID: 39483902

PMID: 39488792
Abstract: 1. Adv Sci (Weinh). 2024 Nov 3:e2405092. doi: 10.1002/advs.202405092. Online
ahead  of print.

Endosomal Trafficking Bypassed by the RAB5B-CD109 Interplay Promotes 
Axonogenesis in KRAS-Mutant Pancreatic Cancer.

Zhang D(1)(2), Luo Y(2), Lin Y(3)(4), Fang Z(2)(5), Zheng H(3)(4), An M(3)(4), 
Xie Q(2)(5), Wu Z(1)(2), Yu C(2)(5), Yang J(2)(5), Yu M(2), Chen C(3)(4), Chen 
R(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, South China University of Technology, Guangzhou, 
Guangdong, 510006, P. R. China.
(2)Department of Pancreatic Surgery, Guangdong Provincial People's Hospital, 
Guangdong Academy of Medical Sciences, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510080, P. R. 
China.
(3)Department of Urology, Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510120, P. R. China.
(4)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Malignant Tumor Epigenetics and Gene 
Regulation, Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital, State Key Laboratory of Oncology in 
South China, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510120, P. R. China.
(5)The Second School of Clinical Medicine, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510080, P. R. China.

Perineural invasion (PNI) represents a unique biological feature associated with 
poor prognosis in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), especially in the 
presence of KRAS mutations. Extracellular vesicle (EV)-packaged circular RNAs 
(circRNAs) function as essential mediators of tumor microenvironment 
communication, triggering PDAC cell invasion and distant metastasis. However, 
the regulatory mechanisms of EV-packaged circRNAs in the PNI of KRAS-mutant PDAC 
have not yet been elucidated. Herein, a KRASG12D mutation-responsive EV-packaged 
circRNA, circPNIT, which positively correlated with PNI in PDAC patients is 
identified. Functionally, KRASG12D PDAC-derived EV-packaged circPNIT promoted 
axonogenesis and PNI both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, the 
circPNIT-mediated Rab5B-CD109 interplay bypassed traditional endosomal 
trafficking to anchor Rab5B to the lipid rafts of multivesicular bodies and 
packaged circPNIT into CD109+ EVs. Subsequently, CD109+ EVs delivered circPNIT 
to neurons by binding to TRPV1 and facilitating DSCAML1 transcription-induced 
axonogenesis, which in turn enhanced the PNI by activating the GFRα1/RET 
pathway. Importantly, circPNIT-loaded CD109+ EVs are established to dramatically 
promote PNI in a KRASG12D/+ Trp53R172H/+ Pdx-1-Cre mouse model. Collectively, 
the findings highlight the mechanism underlying how EV-packaged circRNAs mediate 
the PNI of KRAS-mutant PDAC cells through the Rab5B endosomal bypass, 
identifying circPNIT as an effective target for the treatment of 
neuro-metastatic PDAC.

© 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/advs.202405092
PMID: 39488792

PMID: 39488539
Abstract: 1. Sci Rep. 2024 Nov 2;14(1):26445. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-75048-2.

Association between KRAS mutation and alcohol consumption in Brazilian patients 
with colorectal cancer.

Gomes-Fernandes B(1), Trindade LM(2), de Castro Bastos Rodrigues M(3), Cardoso 
JPD(1), Lima FT(1), Rogerio L(4), de Vasconcelos Generoso S(2), Carneiro JG(5), 
da Silva RG(4), de Souza RP(6), De Marco L(1)(7), Bastos-Rodrigues L(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Tecnologia em Medicina Molecular - Faculdade de Medicina, 
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Nutrição, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo 
Horizonte, Minas Gerais, 35010-177, Brazil.
(3)Faculdade de Medicina, Ciências Médicas de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, 
Minas Gerais, Brazil.
(4)Hospital das Clínicas, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, 
Minas Gerais, Brazil.
(5)Laboratório Personal - Diagnósticos de Precisão, Clínica Personal, Belo 
Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
(6)Laboratório de Biologia Integrativa - Grupo de Pesquisa em Bioestatística e 
Epidemiologia Molecular, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, 
Minas Gerais, Brazil.
(7)Departamento de Cirurgia, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo 
Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
(8)Centro de Tecnologia em Medicina Molecular - Faculdade de Medicina, 
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil. 
lu.bastosr@gmail.com.
(9)Departamento de Nutrição, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo 
Horizonte, Minas Gerais, 35010-177, Brazil. lu.bastosr@gmail.com.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. 
Detection before metastasis and efficient treatment of disease significantly 
improve patient survival and quality of life. However, limitations in diagnosis 
and postoperative surveillance are associated with low CRC detection and 
survival rates. Thus, this project aimed to evaluate the molecular profile of 
patients diagnosed with CRC, as molecular biomarkers constitute a new frontier 
for diagnosis, treatment and prognosis. Methods and Results: 42 patients were 
included in the study, predominantly male (59.5%), with a median age of 63 years 
(SD: 10.0; min: 41; max: 83). The majority of primary tumors were located in the 
rectum (38.1%), in the sigmoid (33.3%) and in the ascending (21.4%) colon. We 
evaluated the genes KRAS, NRAS, BRAF, EGFR and TP53 using Sanger sequencing. 
Somatic and germline mutations were found in the KRAS, EGFR and TP53 genes, with 
the most common somatic alteration being rs121913529 in KRAS. This variant was 
also strongly associated with alcoholism (p = 0.002). Furthermore, patients with 
somatic mutations in TP53 had significantly higher mortality compared to those 
with wild-type alleles (OR: 11.2; 95% CI 1.25-2.45). Conclusions: Our findings 
support a relationship between alcohol consumption and the rs121913529 mutation, 
which is classified as pathogenic for colorectal cancer. Thus, further studies 
investigating the link between alcohol consumption, colorectal carcinogenesis 
and tumor progression ought to be conducted.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-75048-2
PMCID: PMC11531595
PMID: 39488539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

PMID: 39480634
Abstract: 1. Dokl Biochem Biophys. 2024 Oct 31. doi: 10.1134/S160767292460088X. Online
ahead  of print.

Effects of Overexpression of Specific Subunits SAYP, BAP170 of the Chromatin 
Remodeling Complex in Drosophila Melanogaster.

Chmykhalo VK(1), Shidlovskii YV(2), Lebedeva LA(2), Schedl P(3), Giordano E(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gene Biology, Russian Academy of Sciences, Laboratory of Gene 
Expression Regulation in Development, Moscow, Russia. vkchmykhalo@icloud.com.
(2)Institute of Gene Biology, Russian Academy of Sciences, Laboratory of Gene 
Expression Regulation in Development, Moscow, Russia.
(3)Princeton University, Princeton, USA.
(4)Università di Napoli Federico II, Naples, Italy.

The phenotypic manifestations of increased expression of the Bap170 and e(y)3 
(SAYP) genes in D. melanogaster were analyzed. Using the wing disc model, we 
show that moderate co-expression of Bap170 and e(y)3 genes in wing discs leads 
to abnormalities in wing veining. which was probably caused by suppression of 
EGFR/Ras/MAPK signaling pathways. Strong induction of co-expression of the above 
genes in wing discs leads to complete suppression of wing development in adults. 
Ubiquitous co-expression of Bap170 and e(y)3 is lethal at the 1st instar larval 
stage and leads to the formation of melanotic tumors. The above phenotypes are 
observed exclusively when Bap170 and e(y)3 are co-expressed. This evidence 
suggests a robust synergistic effect of the combined action of these genes, 
which is manifested in the hyperactivity of cell proliferation and 
differentiation.

© 2024. Pleiades Publishing, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1134/S160767292460088X
PMID: 39480634

PMID: 39486662
Abstract: 1. Gene. 2024 Oct 30:149043. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2024.149043. Online ahead of 
print.

Gene expression Profiling of maslinic Acid-treated MCF-7 breast cancer cells 
using Nanostring nCounter Pancancer pathway Panel.

Tan SY(1), Foo CN(2), Ng FL(3), Tan CH(4), Lim YM(5).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cancer Research, M. Kandiah Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman, Bandar Sungai Long, Cheras, 43000 
Kajang, Selangor, Malaysia.
(2)Centre for Cancer Research, M. Kandiah Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman, Bandar Sungai Long, Cheras, 43000 
Kajang, Selangor, Malaysia; Department of Population Medicine, Universiti Tunku 
Abdul Rahman, Bandar Sungai Long, Cheras, 43000 Kajang, Selangor, Malaysia.
(3)Centre for Cancer Research, M. Kandiah Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman, Bandar Sungai Long, Cheras, 43000 
Kajang, Selangor, Malaysia; Department of Chinese Medicine, Universiti Tunku 
Abdul Rahman, Bandar Sungai Long, Cheras, 43000 Kajang, Selangor, Malaysia.
(4)Quiliniq Lifesciences Sdn. Bhd, Unit 1-2, Menara Oval Damansara, Taman Tun 
Dr. Ismail. 60000 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(5)Centre for Cancer Research, M. Kandiah Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman, Bandar Sungai Long, Cheras, 43000 
Kajang, Selangor, Malaysia; Department of Pre-clinical Sciences, Universiti 
Tunku Abdul Rahman, Bandar Sungai Long, Cheras, 43000 Kajang, Selangor, 
Malaysia. Electronic address: ymlim@utar.edu.my.

Breast cancer remains a significant global health concern, impacting millions of 
women every year. Maslinic acid (MA), a pentacyclic triterpene has been found to 
exert promising anticancer effect in various cancers, including breast cancer, 
yet the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study aims to elucidate the 
anticancer properties of MA via gene expression profiles in breast cancer cells. 
Cytotoxicity assay results revealed that MCF-7 exerts the highest sensitivity 
after 72 h of MA treatment followed by T-47D and MDA-MB-231. MCF-7 were then 
selected for in-depth analysis using the Nanostring nCounter Pancancer Pathway 
Panel to analyze the differential expression of genes (DEGs). Across three time 
points (24, 48, and 72 h), 20 significant DEGs were identified, of which 5 were 
upregulated and 15 were downregulated. In silico analysis indicated that these 
DEGs were involved in Pathway of Cancer, Focal Adhesion-PI3K-mTOR Signaling 
Pathway, PI3K-Akt, and Ras Signaling Pathway. The regulation of these DEGs 
contributes to several cellular activities such as apoptosis, inhibition of cell 
proliferation, cell cycle and survival, reduction of glycolysis, angiogenesis, 
and DNA repair. Additionally, the unfolded protein response emerged as a 
noteworthy biological process in this study. This study unravels the molecular 
mechanisms underpinning the therapeutic potential of MA against breast cancer.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2024.149043
PMID: 39486662

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

